Storofsen was a flood disaster which struck eastern Norway in July 1789. 63 persons perished, thousands of houses were totally damaged, and thousands of livestock drowned. The rivers Glomma and Gudbrandsdalslågen overflooded, and the water level of Mjøsa rose to ten meters above its normal level.The Kvikne Copper Works were largely damaged by the flood, and this virtually ended the operation of the mines.
The February flood of 1825, also known in Germany as the Great Hallig Flood (Große Halligflut), was a devastating flood that occurred from 3 to 5 February 1825 on the North Sea coast, in which about 800 people were drowned.Particularly affected was the German North Sea coast, with its islets, known as Halligen, where many dykes had already been damaged in November of the year before by a severe storm surge. The village of Pellworm was completely flooded.In East Frisia, the town of Emden was particularly hard hit. But because the levees in the East Frisian area had been raised significantly in many places in the preceding years, the number of casualties - about 200 - was less than it might have been.In the Netherlands, the February flood was the worst natural disaster of the 19th century. Most of the dead and the worst damage was in Groningen, Friesland and Overijssel. The reaction at national level was quite similar to that during the flood of 1953; yet the event was surprisingly quickly forgotten once the damage had been repaired and had no political or engineering consequences. It needed the disaster of 1953 in order for a delta law to be passed and to improve coastal protection significantly.
The Great Flood of 1844 is the biggest flood ever recorded on the Missouri River and Upper Mississippi River, in North America, in terms of discharge.The adjusted economic impact was not as great as subsequent floods because of the small population in the region at the time. The flood devastation was particularly widespread since the region had few or no levees at the time, so the waters were able to spread far from the normal banks.Among the hardest hit in terms of mortality were the Wyandot Indians, who lost 100 people in the diseases that occurred after the flood in the vicinity of today's Kansas City, Kansas—the Wyandot were a people formed from the war and disease depopulated elements of the once mighty Huron Confederacy and the Petun Indian tribes who had migrated south and west.The flood also placed a major obstacle, a sandbar in front of the Wayne City Landing at Independence, Missouri which was to cause and encourage settlers to go further east to Westport Landing in Kansas City causing significant local economic and cultural impact. Independence had been the jumping off place for several key emigrant trails, prior to 1846 notably both the Santa Fe Trail and one alternative eastern starting branch of the Oregon Trail. After the Mexican–American War settlement of 1846, the Oregon's start quickly also became a start of the California Trail and an alternative beginning also for the Mormon Trail (Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints migration to Utah).Congress in 1849 passed the Swamp Act providing land grants to build stronger levees.The flood also is the highest recorded for the Mississippi River at St. Louis (1,300,000 cubic feet second in 1844 vs. 782,000 in 1951 and 1,030,000 in 1993).The 1844 flood was the backdrop to the death of Mormon leaders, brothers Joseph and Hyrum Smith, at the hands of a mob numbering over a hundred men in Carthage, Illinois. Carthage is located a bit over ten miles from the Mississippi river and the northern border of Missouri.
The Great Flood of 1851 occurred after record-setting rainfalls across the U.S. Midwest and Plains from May to August, 1851. Hardest hit was the State of Iowa, with significant flooding extending to the Lower Mississippi River basin. Historical evidence suggest flooding occurred in the eastern Plains, from Nebraska to the Red River basin, but these areas were sparsely settled in 1851. Heavy rainfall also occurred in the Ohio River basin.
The Holmfirth floods refers to a number of instances when severe flooding had occurred in the Holme Valley, West Yorkshire, England affecting Holmfirth and other settlements in the valley. The earliest record dates from 1738 and the latest from 1944. The most severe flood occurred early on the morning of 5 February 1852, when the embankment of the Bilberry reservoir collapsed causing the deaths of 81 people. It is recorded as the 23rd most serious, worldwide, in terms of loss of life from floods and landslides in human history.
The Great Flood of 1862 was the largest flood in the recorded history of Oregon, Nevada, and California, occurring from December 1861 to January 1862. It was preceded by weeks of continuous rains and snows in the very high elevations that began in Oregon in November 1861 and continued into January 1862. This was followed by a record amount of rain from January 9–12, and contributed to a flood which extended from the Columbia River southward in western Oregon, and through California to San Diego, and extended as far inland as Idaho in the Washington Territory, Nevada and Utah in the Utah Territory, and Arizona in the western New Mexico Territory. Immense snowfalls in the mountains of the far western United States caused more flooding in Idaho, Arizona, New Mexico, and Sonora, Mexico the following spring and summer as the snow melted.The event was climaxed by a warmer, more intense storm with much more rain that was much more serious, due to the earlier large accumulation of snow, now melted by the large turbulent heat fluxes into the snow over the lower elevations of the mountains. Throughout the affected area, all the streams and rivers rose to great heights, flooded the valleys, inundated or swept away towns, mills, dams, flumes, houses, fences, and domestic animals, and ruined fields. An early estimate of property damage was $10 million. However, later it was estimated that approximately one-quarter of the taxable real estate in the state of California was destroyed in the flood. Dependent on property taxes, the State of California went bankrupt. The governor, state legislature, and state employees were not paid for a year and a half. Approximately 200,000 cattle drowned, and the state's economy shifted from ranching to farming.
Not to be confused with the floods in Sheffield in 2007.The Great Sheffield Flood was a flood that devastated parts of Sheffield, England, on 11 March 1864, when the Dale Dyke Dam broke as its reservoir was being filled for the first time. At least 240 people died and more than 600 houses were damaged or destroyed by the flood. The immediate cause was a crack in the embankment, but the source of the crack was never determined. The dam's failure led to reforms in engineering practice, setting standards on specifics that needed to be met when constructing such large-scale structures. The dam was rebuilt in 1875.
The 1867 flood of Chattanooga is the largest flood in the city's recorded history. The flood followed a period of heavy rain that affected most of the Tennessee Valley and lasted from March 7 to March 11, 1867. At its highest point, the water of the Tennessee River crested 58 feet (18 metres) above its normal level, and it inundated much of the city. As a result of the flooding, Chattanooga's residents began to raise the city's street level by about one story.
The 1872 Baltic Sea flood (German: Ostseesturmhochwasser 1872), often referred to as a storm flood, ravaged the Baltic Sea coast from Denmark to Pomerania in the night of 12/13 November 1872 and was, until then, the worst storm surge in the Baltic. The highest recorded peak water level was about 3.3 m above sea level (NN).
The Great Flood of 1881 refers to flooding events on the Missouri River during the spring of 1881. The flood struck Omaha, Nebraska and Council Bluffs, Iowa between April 1, 1881 and April 27, 1881. The events provided the first detailed reporting of Missouri River flooding, and caused millions of dollars in damage.
The 1893 Brisbane flood, occasionally referred to as the Great Flood of 1893 or the Black February flood, occurred when the Brisbane River burst its banks on three occasions in February 1893. It was the occurrence of three major floods in the same month that saw the period named "Black February". There was also a fourth flood event later in the same year in June. The river runs through the centre of Brisbane in the Australian state of Queensland,with much of the population living in areas beside the river. It was flooded in the first flood due to a deluge associated with a tropical cyclone, called "Buninyong".The second cyclone struck on 11 February, causing relatively minor flooding compared to the first flood.When the third cyclone came on 19 February, it was almost as devastating as the first, and it left up to one third of Brisbane's residents homeless. This time however the flood in the Brisbane River was largely from waters from the upper reaches of Brisbane River, rather than the Stanley River.For the first flood, Crohamhurst recorded an all-time Australian record of 914.4 mm of rain in a 24-hour period. The water surge was recorded on the Port Office gauge (now the City gauge) as being 8.35 metres (27 feet, 5 inches) above the low tide level. The February 1893 floods were the second and third highest water levels ever recorded at the City gauge, the highest being the January 1841 flood at 8.43 metres (27 feet, 8 inches). There was however some oral aboriginal history suggesting a flood level of nearly 12 m prior to the first European settlement.The 1893 events was preceded by two notable yet less severe floods in 1887 and 1890. Both were caused by high levels of summer rainfall; however the rainfall around this period (with the exception of the two summers) was described as "very low".
The 1897 Red River flood took place in April 1897, along the Red River resulting in significant damage to the city of Fargo, North Dakota. The conditions which led to the flood of 1897 were similar to the conditions behind the 2009 flood, however the 1897 flood was different in terms of the human response to it. Although the river gage was not installed on the Red River until 1901, other sources indicate that the crest of the 1897 flood at a site 1.5 miles (2.4 km) downstream from the present Fargo gage would have been 40.10 ft (with a discharge rate of 25,000 ft3/s) according to the present datum. Until the 2009 flood the 1897 flood was the highest water recorded in the Fargo-Moorhead area and has since served as the benchmark for which many other floods of the Red River were measured against.
The 1897 Yellow River flood was a major natural disaster during the late Qing dynasty in China.After millennia of meandering north and south of the Shandong peninsula, the 1897 flood resulted in the course of the Yellow River generally followed to this day.
1900 (MCM) was an exceptional common year starting on Monday (dominical letter G) of the Gregorian calendar and a leap year starting on Saturday (dominical letter BA) of the Julian calendar, the 1900th year of the Common Era (CE) and Anno Domini (AD) designations, the 900th year of the 2nd millennium, the 100th and last year of the 19th century, and the 1st year of the 1900s decade. Note that the Julian day for 1900 is 12 calendar days difference, which continued to be used from 1582 until the complete conversion of the Gregorian calendar was entirely done in 1929. It was not a leap year as a result of the second finest adjustment of the Gregorian calendar where leap years are eliminated in centennial years not evenly divisible by 400 (Source: The Discoverers, Boorstin, page 9). As a result, the Julian calendar was 12 days behind the Gregorian until Wednesday, February 28 (O.S. February 16) and has been 13 days behind since Thursday, March 1 (O.S. February 17).
The 1900 Western Australian floods were a series of flooding events from March to May 1900 that affected large areas of Western Australia, primarily in the Pilbara and Gascoyne regions, though it extended to cover most of the state except the more humid Kimberley and South West regions.The flooding had its beginnings in heavy rain in March 1900 over a very broad area extending from North West Cape to the southeastern corner of the state. It was in the middle of April over the Easter long weekend, however, that flooding began in earnest, and at the end of the month the majority of the normally arid parts of the state were completely inundated: by Easter Monday, all houses in Roebourne were completely surrounded by water from the Harding River.During April and May, the rain was associated with what was described in the press of the time as "a gentle easterly flow" but today is recognised to be a northwest cloudband. There were several of these cloudbands during the month, and the result was some astonishing rainfall totals, for instance Wiluna received 527.1 millimetres (20.8 in) and Cossack (near Port Hedland) as much as 636.4 millimetres (25.1 in). The heaviest rainfall of all occurred in the Pilbara during the middle of the month, and resulted in rivers such as the Gascoyne, Ashburton and Murchison overflowing their banks for extraordinarily sustained periods. (Unfortunately, there were no gauges at the time so we do not know what the exact heights were).So heavy indeed was the rainfall that the normally arid "North West" (as the region was known at the time) was completely boggy and the primitive horse-drawn carts could not traverse the country not only in April, but well into May, especially as another major rainband affected the State early that month, with Onslow recording as much as 9.31 inches (236 mm) in a day on the third. The busy Easter mail services were most severely hit of all, with the mail vans from Perth bogged down at Peak Hill after crossing a Gascoyne River that was supposedly 3 miles (4.8 km) wide as the rain extended at the end of Easter to the Murchison River’s basin.Wash-outs on the telegraph line with which the remote regions affected by the floods communicated with Perth were indeed not repaired until well into June, a month after flooding peaked in the Pilbara and Gascoyne and had spread eastward to the goldfields of Western Australia. In the interim, communication about the flooding was delayed almost uniformly by at least three or four days, aided by a severe famine and shortage of food for pack horses and salt lakes in the Goldfields such as Lake Carnegie and Lake Maitland filled for probably the only time in centuries - they were never seen with any water between the first European settlement of Western Australia and these floods were thus unprecedented for an extremely long period of time.
The Heppner Flood of 1903 was a major flash flood along Willow Creek responsible for destroying a large portion of Heppner, Oregon, United States, on June 14, 1903. With a death toll of 247 people, it remains the deadliest natural disaster in Oregon, and the second deadliest flash flood in the entire United States, behind the 1889 Johnstown Flood and ahead of the 1972 Black Hills Flood. The flood caused over $600,000 in damage, equivalent to $15.8 million today.After an exceptionally dry spring, strong thunderstorms moved over the Heppner area on June 14, 1903. Torrential rain and hail began falling on the watersheds of Willow Creek and two of its largest tributaries, Balm Fork and Hinton Creek, by 16:30. The region's arid climate and little vegetation coupled with the ground already being wet from a storm three days earlier caused very little water to be absorbed by the soil, and soon the streams were flooding. Within fifteen minutes after the rain began to fall, water rushed down the streams (mainly the Balm Fork), towards Heppner. A steam laundry building on the southern edge of Heppner built across Willow Creek acted as a dam when the water arrived, failing under the stress several minutes later. This sent a 15-to-50-foot (5 to 15 m) wall of water cascading down Willow Creek that quickly reduced many of Heppner's structures to rubble. Some structures were ripped off their foundations and floated downstream. At its peak, over 36,000 cubic feet per second (1,000 m3/s) of water raced down Willow Creek, more than the average flow of the much larger Willamette River to the west. Many people were able to escape to higher ground, but 247—nearly a quarter of Heppner's population at the time—died. The waters finally receded around an hour later. Numerous houses in Heppner were destroyed, and around 140 total structures, about one-third of Heppner, were washed away. Heppner's population did not completely recover to pre-1903 levels for several decades.After the flood inundated Heppner, two of its residents, Les Matlock and Bruce Kelly, rode on horseback to warn the cities of Lexington and Ione, 9 and 18 miles (14 and 29 km) downstream, respectively. The flood washed through Lexington at about 19:00, just before they arrived, destroying several buildings. Matlock and Kelly continued north to Ione, overtaking the flood and warning the bewildered residents to evacuate. No one was killed in Ione or Lexington. However, the floodwaters washed raw sewage from Heppner downstream, contaminating wells in both Lexington and Ione. As a result, at least 18 people died from typhoid fever over the next several months.The flood led to flood control studies in 1962, 1965, and 1979. The Willow Creek Dam was completed in 1983 to prevent such a flood in the future. It is the first major roller-compacted concrete dam.Pendleton, Oregon photographer Walter S. Bowman captured images of the aftermath.
The Great Musi Flood was a devastating flood that occurred on 28 September 1908 in the Hyderabad state capital on the banks of Musi river. The flood, locally known as Thughyani Sitambar, shattered the life of the people living in Hyderabad, killing 50,000 people. It washed away three bridges — the Afzal, Mussallam Jung and Chaderghat — the Puranapul became the only link between two parts of the city.
The 1910 Great Flood of Paris (French: Crue de la Seine de 1910) was a catastrophe in which the Seine River, carrying winter rains from its tributaries, flooded Paris agglomeration, France. The Seine water level rose eight meters above the ordinary level.
The Great Dayton Flood of 1913 hit Dayton, Ohio, and the surrounding area with water from the Great Miami River, causing the greatest natural disaster in Ohio history. In response, the General Assembly passed the Vonderheide Act to enable the formation of conservancy districts. The Miami Conservancy District, which included Dayton and the surrounding area, became one of the first major flood control districts in Ohio and the United States.The Dayton flood of March 1913 was caused by a series of winter storms that hit the Midwest in late March. Within three days, 8–11 inches (200–280 mm) of rain fell throughout the Great Miami River watershed on already saturated soil, resulting in more than 90 percent runoff that caused the river and its tributaries to overflow. The existing series of levees failed, and downtown Dayton experienced flooding up to 20 feet (6.1 m) deep. This flood is still the flood of record for the Great Miami River watershed, and the amount of water that passed through the river channel during this storm equals the flow over Niagara Falls each month.The Great Miami River watershed covers nearly 4,000 square miles (10,000 km2) and 115 miles (185 km) of channel that feeds into the Ohio River. Other Ohio cities experienced flooding from these storms, but none as extensive as the cities of Dayton, Piqua, Troy, and Hamilton along the Great Miami River.
The Great Flood of 1913 occurred between March 23 and March 26, after major rivers in the central and eastern United States flooded from runoff and several days of heavy rain. Related deaths and damage in the United States were widespread and extensive. While the exact number is not certain, flood-related deaths in Ohio, Indiana, and eleven other states are estimated at approximately 650. The official death toll range for Ohio falls between 422 and 470. Flood-related death estimates in Indiana range from 100 to 200. More than a quarter million people were left homeless. The death toll from the flood of 1913 places it second to the Johnstown Flood of 1889 as one of the deadliest floods in the United States. The flood remains Ohio's largest weather disaster. In the Midwest damage estimates exceeded a third of a billion dollars. Damage from the Great Dayton Flood at Dayton, Ohio, exceeded $73 million. Indiana’s damages were estimated at $25 million (in 1913 dollars). Further south, along the Mississippi River, damages exceeded $200 million. Devastation from the flood of 1913 and later floods along the Mississippi River eventually changed the country's management of its waterways and increased federal support for comprehensive flood prevention and funding for flood control projects. The Ohio Conservancy Act, which was signed by the governor of Ohio in 1914, became a model for other states to follow. The act allowed for the establishment of conservancy districts with the authority to implement flood control projects.The storm system that produced the flood in late March 1913 began with a typical winter storm pattern, but developed characteristics that promoted heavy precipitation. Strong Canadian winds stalled a high-pressure system off Bermuda and delayed the normal easterly flow of a low-pressure system. In the meantime, moist air from the Gulf of Mexico moved into the Midwest through the Mississippi River valley as a second Canadian high-pressure system arrived from the west, creating a low-pressure trough that stretched from southern Illinois, across central Indiana, and into northern Ohio. At least two low-pressure systems moving along the trough caused heavy rain over the four-day period between March 23 and March 26. As the storm gained strength on Sunday, March 23, high winds, hail, sleet, and tornadoes arrived in the Great Plains, the South, and the Midwest. Major tornadoes hit Omaha, Nebraska; Lone Peach, Arkansas; and Terre Haute, Indiana. On Monday and Tuesday, March 24 and 25, 3 to 8 inches (76 to 203 mm) of rain fell in Ohio, Indiana, and southern Illinois. Major rivers in Indiana and Ohio experienced heavy runoff. Downstream, where the Ohio River enters the Mississippi River, the water level broke record highs to that time as the water flowed south to the Gulf of Mexico. By Tuesday, March 25, the Ohio River and its tributaries flooded cities such as Indianapolis, Indiana, and Cincinnati and Columbus, Ohio. Dayton, Ohio, was particularly hard-hit. On Wednesday, March 26, the storm moved east into Pennsylvania and New York, while heavy rain continued in the Ohio River valley. The heaviest rainfall, 6 to 9 inches (150 to 230 mm) or more, covered an area from southern Illinois into northwestern Pennsylvania. As the storm continued eastward, flooding began in New York, Massachusetts, Vermont, and Virginia. The Potomac River overflowed its banks in Maryland.State and local communities handled much of their own disaster response and relief in 1913. The American Red Cross, a small organization at that time, focused its efforts in more than one hundred of Ohio's hardest-hit communities, including Dayton, and served six of Indiana’s hardest-hit counties. Ohio governor James M. Cox called on the state legislature to appropriate $250,000 (about $11 million in today's dollars) for emergency aid. Indiana governor Samuel M. Ralston appealed to Indiana cities and other states for relief assistance. Many communities cared for their own flood victims with Red Cross assistance, charitable donations, and contributions from local businesses, industries, and service organizations.
The Great flood of '99 occurred when the River Periyar in Kerala state of India flooded in the month of July, 1924. This is the year 1099 ME in the Malayalam Calendar. As the Malayalam Calendar was popular in Kerala, this flood is generally called the flood of 99.The rain continued for about three weeks. Many districts of the present day Kerala were deeply submerged in water by this flood - From Trichur, to Ernakulam to Idukki, Kottayam even up to Alappuzha and Kuttanad. Even a huge mountain called Karinthiri Malai was washed away by this flood and the road to Munnar also went along with it. As the road to Munnar was lost, a new road from Ernakulam to Munnar became necessary - the present day road from Ernakulam to Munnar was constructed after this.
The Great Mississippi Flood of 1927 was the most destructive river flood in the history of the United States, with 27,000 square miles inundated up to a depth of 30 feet. To try to prevent future floods, the federal government built the world's longest system of levees and floodways.Ninety-four percent of the more than 630,000 people affected by the flood lived in the states of Arkansas, Mississippi and Louisiana, most in the Mississippi Delta. More than 200,000 African Americans were displaced from their homes along the Lower Mississippi River and had to live for lengthy periods in relief camps. As a result of this disruption, many joined the Great Migration from the South to northern and midwestern industrial cities rather than return to rural agricultural labor.  This massive population movement increased from World War II until 1970.
The 1928 Thames flood was a disastrous flood of the River Thames that affected much of riverside London on 7 January 1928, as well as places further downriver. Fourteen people were drowned in London and thousands were made homeless when flood waters poured over the top of the Thames Embankment and part of the Chelsea Embankment collapsed. It was the last major flood to affect central London, and, particularly following the disastrous North Sea flood of 1953, helped lead to the implementation of new flood-control measures that culminated in the construction of the Thames Barrier in the 1970s.
The 1931 China floods or the 1931 Yellow River floods were a series of floods that occurred in the Republic of China. The floods are generally considered among one of the deadliest natural disasters ever recorded, and almost certainly the deadliest of the 20th century (when pandemics and famines are discounted). Estimates of the total death toll range from 145,000 to between 3.7 million and 4 million.
The Flood of 1934 was a natural disaster that hit the town of Bridgeton, New Jersey in August 1934. Over the course of three days, heavy rains fell in the region, swelling Sunset Lake and other local interconnected waterways. At the time, there were two earthen dams holding the water back at Sunset Lake and Mary Elmer Lake. Eventually the pressure was too much and the dams gave way sending a torrent of water down the Cohansey River as well as tributaries connected to the Lakes. The wall of water surged down through the banks of the Cohansey, emptying the lakes and the Raceway and flowing into and through downtown Bridgeton, which straddles the river. All the bridges that connected the east and west sides of the town were destroyed. Also damaged was Tumbling Dam Park, where the dam that held the water of Sunset Lake was located.
1934 flood in Poland was the biggest flood in the Second Polish Republic. It began with heavy rains in the Dunajec river basin, which took place between 13 and 17 July 1934. In the following days, the flood spread to the basins of the Raba, Wisłoka, and Skawa, all of which are tributaries to the Vistula. The disaster took the lives of 55 people and caused damages estimated at 60 million interbellum Polish zlotys.
On March 17 and 18, 1936, the city of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania witnessed the worst flood in its history when flood levels peaked at 46 feet (14 m). This flood became known as The Great St. Patrick’s Day Flood, and also affected other areas of the Mid-Atlantic on both sides of the Eastern Continental Divide.
The Ohio River flood of 1937 took place in late January and February 1937. With damage stretching from Pittsburgh to Cairo, Illinois, one million people were left homeless, with 385 dead and property losses reaching $500 million ($8.7 billion in 2015 dollars). Federal and state resources were strained to aid recovery, as the disaster occurred during the depths of the Great Depression and a few years after the Dust Bowl.
A flash flood on the Waiau Stream at Kopuawhara in New Zealand on 19 February 1938 destroyed a railway construction workers camp killing 20 men and one woman, Martha Quinn.
The Los Angeles flood of 1938 was responsible for inundating much of Los Angeles, Orange, and Riverside counties, California during February and March 1938. The flood was caused by a pair of Pacific storms that swept inland across the Los Angeles Basin, causing abnormally high rainfall across much of coastal Southern California. Between 113 to 115 people were killed in what ultimately became one of the most catastrophic natural disasters in Southern California history. The flood caused the Santa Ana, Los Angeles, and San Gabriel Rivers to burst their banks, washing away roads, bridges, and buildings, and stranding hundreds of people. Damage in some parts of Los Angeles County was mitigated by dams in the San Gabriel Mountains, while Orange and Riverside Counties experience more damage because of the lack of flood-control works in the Santa Ana River system.The flooding event of 1938 is considered a 50-year flood. It resulted in $40 million of damages, and the Red Cross deemed it the "fifth largest flood in history". In response to the floods, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers began channelizing local streams and building more flood control dams. Dams built in the aftermath of the flood include Sepulveda Dam, Hansen Dam, Prado Dam, and Whittier Narrows Dam, which hydrologically connects the San Gabriel River to the Rio Hondo. These works have been instrumental in protecting coastal Southern California from subsequent flooding events, although the storms of 1969 and 2005, which had larger volume than the 1938 flood, still caused major damage and forced the evacuation of low-lying areas.
The 1938 Yellow River flood (Chinese: 花园口决堤事件; pinyin: huāyuán kǒu juédī shìjiàn, literally "Huayuankou embankment breach event") was a flood created by the Nationalist Government in central China during the early stage of the Second Sino-Japanese War in an attempt to halt the rapid advance of Japanese forces. It has been called the "largest act of environmental warfare in history."
The 1947 Thames flood was worst overall 20th century flood of the River Thames, affecting much of the Thames Valley as well as elsewhere in England during the middle of March 1947 after a severe winter.The floods were caused by 117 mm (4.6 inches) of precipitation (including snow); the peak flow was 61.7 billion litres of water per day and the damage cost a total of £12 million to repair [1]. War damage to some of the locks made matters worse. People drowned and some of them died as well. Other significant Thames floods since 1947 have occurred in 1968, 1993, 1998, 2000, 2003, 2006 and 2014.
The 1950 Red River flood was a devastating flood that took place along the Red River in The Dakotas and Manitoba in early 1950. Winnipeg was inundated on May 5, also known as Black Friday to some residents, and had to be partially evacuated. In that year, the Red River reached its highest level since 1861 and flooded most of the Red River Valley.
In mid-July 1951, heavy rains led to a great rise of water in the Kansas River and other surrounding areas of the central United States. Flooding resulted in the Kansas, Neosho, Marais Des Cygnes, and Verdigris river basins. The damage in June and July 1951 exceeded $935 million in an area covering eastern Kansas and Missouri, which, adjusting for inflation, is nearly $8.52 billion in 2016. The flood resulted in the loss of 17 lives and displaced 518,000 people.
The 1953 North Kyushu flood was the flood which hit Northern Kyushu, Japan (Fukuoka Prefecture, Saga Prefecture, Kumamoto Prefecture and Ōita Prefecture) in June 1953. The torrential rain of the rainy season, amounting to more than 1,000 mm on Aso and Hikosan mountains, produced the great flood to many rivers such as Chikugo River and the toll of more than 1,000 people dead and missing. 450,000 houses were flooded and 1,000,000 people suffered from the flood. The fundamental change of flood control in the Kyushu area was needed and the standards of flood control have been taken against further floods.
The 1953 North Sea flood (Dutch: Watersnoodramp, literally "flood disaster") was a major flood caused by a heavy storm that occurred on the night of Saturday, 31 January 1953 and morning of Sunday, 1 February 1953. The floods struck the Netherlands, Belgium, England and Scotland.A combination of a high spring tide and a severe European windstorm over the North Sea caused a storm tide; the combination of wind, high tide, and low pressure led to a water level of more than 5.6 metres (18.4 ft) above mean sea level in some locations. The flood and waves overwhelmed sea defences and caused extensive flooding. The Netherlands, a country with 20% of its territory below mean sea level and 50% less than 1 metre (3.3 ft) above sea level and which relies heavily on sea defences, was worst affected, recording 1,836 deaths and widespread property damage. Most of the casualties occurred in the southern province of Zeeland. In England, 307 people were killed in the counties of Lincolnshire, Norfolk, Suffolk and Essex. Nineteen were killed in Scotland. Twenty-eight people were killed in West Flanders, Belgium.Another more than 230 deaths occurred on water craft along Northern European coasts as well as on ships in deeper waters of the North Sea. The ferry MV Princess Victoria was lost at sea in the North Channel east of Belfast with 133 fatalities, and many fishing trawlers sank.Realising that such infrequent events could recur, the Netherlands particularly, and the United Kingdom carried out major studies on strengthening of coastal defences. The Netherlands developed the Delta Works, an extensive system of dams and storm surge barriers. The UK constructed storm surge barriers on the River Thames below London and on the River Hull where it meets the Humber estuary.
From June to September 1954, the Yangtze River Floods were a series of catastrophic floodings that occurred mostly in Hubei Province. Due to unusually high volume of precipitation as well as an extraordinarily long rainy season in the middle stretch of the Yangtze River late in the spring of 1954, the river started to rise above its usual level in around late June. Despite efforts to open three important flood gates to alleviate the rising water by diverting it, the flood level continued to rise until it hit the historic high of 44.67 m in Jingzhou, Hubei and 29.73 m in Wuhan. The number of dead from this flood was estimated at around 33,000, including those who died of plague by eating rotten bananas.
The Flood of 1955 in Connecticut is one of the worst floods in Connecticut's history. Two back-to-back hurricanes saturated the land and several river valleys in the state, causing severe flooding in August 1955. The hardest hit were the Mad and Still Rivers in Winsted, the Naugatuck River, the Farmington River and the Quinebaug River. Towns that suffered much loss include Farmington, Putnam, Waterbury, and Winsted. Almost 90 people died during the flooding, and property damage across the state was estimated at more than $200 million, in 1955 figures. The floods prompted changes in safety measures, river monitoring and zoning laws.
The Hunter Valley Floods (also known as the Maitland Flood) of February 1955 was a major flood on the Hunter River in New South Wales, Australia. They were one of the most devastating natural disasters in Australia's history.The flood overwhelmed rivers on both sides of the Great Dividing Range, creating an inland sea the size of England and Wales. Worst hit was the inland city of Maitland, which is sited precariously on low-lying land on the Hunter, was completely inundated by floodwaters. A total of 25 lives were claimed during a week of flooding that washed away 58 homes and damaged 103 beyond repair. In Maitland alone, 2180 homes were invaded by water.
The 1956 Murray River flood involved the rising of waters in the Murray River and flooding of many towns in three states of Australia, including the towns of Colignan, Iraak, Mannum, Murray Bridge, Mildura, Nangiloc, Red Cliffs, Renmark, Wentworth and many others.The flood occurred due to higher than average rainfalls in Western Queensland and heavy rains in the proceeding three months in Murray catchment areas, peaking at 12.3 metres at Morgan, South Australia. Some areas were flooded up to 100 km from the natural flow of the river.The flood was and still is considered the biggest flood in the recorded history of the River Murray and described as "the greatest catastrophe in South Australia’s history".As a result of the flood, the Menindee Lakes were constructed to store high flows from the Darling River.
The 1957 Valencia flood (Spanish: gran riada de Valencia) was a natural disaster that occurred on 13 and 14 October 1957 in Valencia, Spain. The flood resulted in significant damage to property and caused the deaths of at least 81 people. In response to the tragedy, the Spanish government devised and enacted the Plan Sur, which rerouted the city's main river, the Turia.
In April 1959, Uruguay suffered floods (Spanish: Inundaciones de abril de 1959 en Uruguay) that were the severest in modern history of Uruguay.Rainfall lasted from March 23 till April 78, and as a consequence the Río Negro suffered an overtopping. Waters passed over the Dam of Rincón del Bonete.
The North Sea flood of 1962 was a natural disaster affecting mainly the coastal regions of Germany and in particular the city of Hamburg in the night from 16 February to 17 February 1962. In total, the homes of about 60,000 people were destroyed, and the death toll amounted to 315 in Hamburg. In addition, three people were killed in the United Kingdom by high winds, which damaged around 175,000 houses in the worst affected city, Sheffield.
The Christmas flood of 1964 was a major flood that took place in the Pacific Northwest and California between December 18, 1964, and January 7, 1965, spanning the Christmas holiday. Considered a 100-year flood, it was the worst flood in recorded history on nearly every major stream and river in coastal Northern California and one of the worst to affect the Willamette River in Oregon. It also had an impact on parts of southwest Washington, Idaho, and Nevada. In Oregon, 17 people died as a result of the disaster, and it caused hundreds of millions of dollars in damage. The flooding on the Willamette covered 152,789 acres (61,831.5 ha). The National Weather Service rated the flood as the fifth most destructive weather event in Oregon in the 20th century. California Governor Pat Brown was quoted as saying that a flood of similar proportions could "happen only once in 1,000 years," and it was often referred to later as the Thousand Year Flood. The flood killed 19 people, heavily damaged or completely devastated at least 10 towns, destroyed all or portions of more than 20 major highway and county bridges, carried away millions of board feet of lumber and logs from mill sites, devastated thousands of acres of agricultural land, killed 4,000 head of livestock, and caused $100 million in damage in Humboldt County, California, alone.
The Great Flood of 1968 was a flood caused by a pronounced trough of low pressure which brought exceptionally heavy rain and thunderstorms to South East England and France in mid-September 1968, with the worst on Sunday 15 September 1968, and followed earlier floods in South West England during July.
The 1970 floods in Romania, brought on by river swelling caused by torrential rains, high winds and a heat wave that melted snow in the Carpathian Mountains, were the worst in modern Romanian history in loss of life, and caused the most damage up to the 2006 floods: at least $500 million; perhaps over $1 billion.
The 1971 Canberra flood was a flash flood that occurred on 26 January 1971, in the Woden Valley district of Canberra, Australia.
The 1971 Kuala Lumpur floods was a major flash flood disaster in Malaysia that occurred in January 1971. The flooding was the result of heavy monsoon rains, which swelled the Klang, Batu, and Gombak rivers. 32 people were killed and 180,000 people were affected. The Malaysian Prime Minister Tun Abdul Razak declared a state of national disaster in Western Malaysia.The floods were the worst in the country since 1926. As a result of the flooding, the Kuala Lumpur Flood Mitigation Programme was set up.
The Black Hills Flood of 1972, also known as the Rapid City Flood, was one of the most detrimental floods in the history of South Dakota. It took place on June 9–10, 1972 in the Black Hills of Western South Dakota. 15 inches (380 mm) of rainfall over six hours sent Rapid Creek and other waterways overflowing, flooding many residential and commercial properties in Rapid City. It also caused flooding of Battle, Spring, Bear Butte, and Boxelder Creeks.During the night of June 9, Canyon Lake Dam became clogged with debris and failed, resulting in 238 deaths and 3,057 injuries. Several bodies were never found. Over 1,335 homes and 5,000 automobiles were destroyed. The value of the damaged property was over US $160 million in 1972 dollars.
The Buffalo Creek flood was a disaster that occurred on February 26, 1972, when the Pittston Coal Company's coal slurry impoundment dam #3, located on a hillside in Logan County, West Virginia, burst, four days after having been declared 'satisfactory' by a federal mine inspector.The resulting flood unleashed approximately 132,000,000 US gallons (500,000 m3) of black waste water, cresting over 30 ft high, upon the residents of 16 coal towns along Buffalo Creek Hollow. Out of a population of 5,000 people, 125 were killed, 1,121 were injured, and over 4,000 were left homeless. 507 houses were destroyed, in addition to forty-four mobile homes and 30 businesses. The disaster destroyed or damaged homes in Saunders, Pardee, Lorado, Craneco, Lundale, Stowe, Crites, Latrobe, Robinette, Amherstdale, Becco, Fanco, Braeholm, Accoville, Crown and Kistler.  In its legal filings, Pittston Coal referred to the accident as "an Act of God."Dam #3, constructed of coarse mining refuse dumped into the Middle Fork of Buffalo Creek starting in 1968, failed first, following heavy rains. The water from Dam #3 then overwhelmed Dams #2 and #1. Dam #3 had been built on top of coal slurry sediment that had collected behind dams # 1 and #2, instead of on solid bedrock. Dam #3 was approximately 260 feet above the town of Saunders when it failed.
The Mississippi flood of 1973 occurred between March and May 1973 on the lower Mississippi River. The flooding was the third most severe along the U.S.' Mississippi River during the 20th century.
The 1974 Brisbane flood occurred in January 1974 in Brisbane, Queensland, Australia. It took place when the waterways in the city experienced significant flooding. The Brisbane River, which runs through the heart of the city, broke its banks and flooded the surrounding areas.In total, there were 14 fatalities, 300 people injured, 8000 homes destroyed and an estimated A$68 million in damages.
The 1978 Singapore flood was one of the worst floods in Singapore's history. Monsoon rains contributed to this disaster on 2 December 1978. There were seven casualties, and more than a thousand residents were evacuated from their homes by the army and police boats from five affected areas. Total damage reached S$10 million, the worst flood since the Hari Raya floods that hit the island in December 1969.
The 1979 Easter flood was among the most costly and devastating floods ever to occur in Mississippi, with $500-700 million in damages. This is equivalent to $1.63 billion in present-day terms. It was the result of the Pearl River being overwhelmed by severe rain upstream. Floodwaters sent the Pearl 15 feet above flood stage. More than 17,000 residents of Jackson, Flowood, Pearl, Richland and other communities were forced from their homes. The flooding of the Pearl River placed most of Jackson, the state's capital city, under water.
The December 1981 windstorm was a severe storm that particularly affected southern England, Wales and south west France during December 13, 1981. The storm formed as a secondary low.In England, the storm started with violent winds and snow, which reached Cornwall during the morning. Prior its arrival a number of record low temperatures were reached for December, with -25.2C at RAF Shawbury in Shropshire, -5.5C in Southampton, while in Wales a record of -22.7C was recorded at Corwen in Denbighshire.In the evening spring tides combined with a 1.45 m (4.8 ft) storm surge resulted in the highest water levels recorded in the Bristol Channel since the start of the 20th century. Water from melting snow, caused by milder weather accompanying the depression, added to the flooding. The maximum surge at Hinkley Point was measured at 1.3 metres (4 ft 3 in) above the 7.4 metres (24 ft) tidal level Ordnance Datum (OD) at 2025 hours, and 1.3 metres (4 ft 3 in) measured at Avonmouth. The wind was measured at 40 knots (74 km/h; 46 mph) from the west. Over topping of the sea defences along a 7 miles (11 km) stretch of the North Somerset coast at 22 locations from Clevedon to Porlock began after 19:30, and continued until about 21:30 when the wind speed had reached 50 knots (93 km/h; 58 mph) from the west. Although there was no loss of life, the resultant flooding covered 12,500 acres (5,100 ha) of land, affecting 1072 houses and commercial properties, with £150,000 worth of livestock killed and £50,000 of feed and grain destroyed. Wessex Water Authority estimated the total cost of the damage caused at £6m, resulting in a three-year programme of sea defence assessment, repair and improvement.In France, the storm caused widespread flooding in the south west, causing considerable damage in the river basins of the Garonne and Adour and flooding the city of Bordeaux.The MV Bonita, an 8000 tonne Ecuadorian cargo ship sailing from Hamburg to Panama was caught in the storm in the English Channel. 29 were rescued from the ship, 4 by helicopter until the storm was too strong for the helicopter to operate. The remaining crew were rescued by the Guernsey lifeboat, however there were 2 fatalities.Water entered the cooling water pump house of Hinkley Point nuclear power station, causing a shut-down for weeks after the storm.
The 1982–83 Paraguay floods refers to major flooding that primarily affected the Paraná River basin in the La Plata Basin of Paraguay in the fall of 1982 and beginning of 1983. The flooding was caused by El Niño and also affected parts of Brazil, Argentina and Bolivia. Although only 170 were killed as a direct result of the floods, 600,000 people were evacuated from their homes and in the end the damage rose to around $3 billion. Affecting an estimate of 85,000 people solely in Paraguay, the flood waters had risen from an average of 2.6 meters to above 9 meters. This resulted in several national and international voluntary agencies donating over $70,000. The floods caused a great deal of damage to housing, prompting a structural redesign in building in Paraguay in the aftermath. Houses were constructed, designed to provide safe shelter, even if the floods submerged single storey houses.
The Napa River flood of 1986 is considered by many to be the worst flood experienced by Napa, California during the 20th century. 7,000 people were evacuated, 250 homes were destroyed, 3 people died and damages totaled $100 million. Following the flood, residents expressed a renewed urgency to mitigate flooding caused by winter storms and man made created obstacles that slowed the flow of the river on its course to the San Francisco Bay. Since the flood, the Napa County Flood Control and Water Conservation District has been working on controlling the floods by way of the Napa River Flood Project. Another flood of lesser proportions occurred on December 31, 2005 after over a week of rain. Other smaller floods in 1995 and 1997 occurred between 1986 and 2005 include a flood in 1995 and 1997.
On May 16, 1986, the Northern Ontario community of Winisk was completely washed away. A spring ice jam on the Winisk River caused flood waters to reach as far as six kilometers inland, sending every structure but two into Hudson Bay.Many residents were caught by surprise. Massive boulders of ice were carried by the torrent through town, completely enveloped by the swollen river. Several were injured and two were killed. One man drowned and one woman was crushed by ice.Relief efforts were difficult, as few roads existed in the isolated settlement. Residents had no escape from the town, which was connected to the greater world only by a small helipad. While the flood had spared this infrastructure, it proved inadequate for effective rescue of the town's population. Some residents were stranded in canoes for days while rescue conducted by The Department of Indian and Northern Affairs airlifted victims between the disaster and the helipad.An inquest was launched as a result of the disaster. Several recommendations were made, including more effective surveillance of river conditions, the implementation of an early flood warning system, emergency transportation adequate to serve its population, and a pre-planned escape route. Communication was also cited as an issue. Many northern communities did not even possess a CB radio. The community's isolation contributed to its neglect in flood protection.Winisk was abandoned, and the community was later rebuilt thirty kilometers up-river on higher ground. The new settlement was renamed Peawanuck, meaning "flintstone" in the Cree language.
A pair of spring storms occurring in March and April 1987 combined with snow-melt to produce record or major flooding in Maine, New Hampshire, and Massachusetts.
In the summer of 1991, continuous, heavy rainfall in Eastern China caused rivers and water loggings to overflow and flood the area, leading to the Chinese government requesting international aid.
The Chicago flood occurred on April 13, 1992, when the damaged wall of a utility tunnel beneath the Chicago River opened into a breach which flooded basements and underground facilities throughout the Chicago Loop with an estimated 250 million US gallons (950,000 m3) of water.
The 1993 Kagoshima Heavy Rain was a series of heavy torrential rains which hit Kagoshima, Japan with debris flow in the early part of August 1993. The formal name in Japanese was the "August 1993 Heavy Rain" (平成5年8月豪雨). The death toll was 71, and about 2,500 people who were in cars, buses and trains were saved by fishing boats and ferries which carried them to Kagoshima through the Kagoshima Bay.
The Merriespruit tailings dam disaster occurred on the night of 22 February 1994 when a tailings dam failed and flooded the suburb of Merriespruit, Virginia, Free State, South Africa. Seventeen people were killed.Late in the afternoon on the day of the failure, a thunderstorm occurred and about 50 mm of rain fell in 30 minutes. When the dam failed, 600 000 m³ of liquid flowed 4 km. The nearest houses were located 300 m downslope of the dam; when the wave of water and tailings reached them, it was 2.5 m high.Seventeen people were killed and there was widespread devastation and environmental damage. Eighty houses were destroyed.
The May 1995 Louisiana flood, also known as the May 8–10, 1995, New Orleans area flood event, struck the New Orleans metropolitan area, shutting down the city for two days. The entire 40-hour event from the evening of Monday, May 8, through the morning of Wednesday, May 10, consisted of two distinct heavy rainfalls. By Wednesday morning, storm total rainfall amounts of 10 to 20 inches (25 to 51 cm) were common across portions of southeast Louisiana and south Mississippi. Six persons were killed. The event was later estimated to have caused more than $3.1 billion in damage.
The 1996 Oman cyclone (also known as Cyclone 02A) was a tenacious and deadly system that caused historic flooding in the southern Arabian Peninsula. It originated from a disturbance in the Gulf of Aden, the first such tropical cyclogenesis on record. After moving eastward, the system interacted with the monsoon trough and became a tropical storm on June 11. Later that day, it turned toward Oman and struck the country's southeast coast. It weakened over land, dissipating on June 12, although it continued to produce rainfall – heavy at times – over the next few days.Offshore Oman, the storm's rough waves disabled an oil tanker and damaged a fishing boat, killing one person in the latter incident. Striking Oman, the storm produced significant rainfall totals well above the monthly average, peaking at 234 mm (9.2 in) in the Dhofar region. Strong winds where the storm moved ashore damaged buildings and the local water plant. The rains washed out roads and isolated villages, killing two people due to drowning in Al-Ghubra. However, the effects were more severe in Yemen, where the floods were considered the worst on record. The storm produced the heaviest rainfall in 70 years, reaching 189 mm (7.4 in) in Ma'rib. Flood waters washed away or damaged 1,068 km (664 mi) of roads and 21 bridges, some of them dating back 2,000 years to the Roman era. The storm washed away the topsoil or otherwise wrecked 42,800 ha (106,000 acres) of crop fields, accounting for US$100 million in agriculture damage. At least 1,820 houses were destroyed, many of them built on wadis, or dry river beds. Overall damage was estimated at US$1.2 billion, and there were 338 deaths in Yemen. The World Bank assisted in a project to rebuild the damaged infrastructure in Yemen and to mitigate against future floods.
The October 1996 India cyclone (also known as Cyclone 05A) had an unusual and protracted path that spanned much of the northern Indian Ocean. It originated in a weather disturbance that formed on October 14 in the southern Bay of Bengal, off India's east coast. Moving westward, it struck Andhra Pradesh on October 17 as a well-defined low pressure area. It crossed southern India and reorganized in the Arabian Sea off the western coast of India. The system developed into a depression on October 22 and quickly intensified while moving northward. By October 24, the cyclone approached hurricane intensity as it developed an eye, reaching peak winds of at least 110 km/h (70 mph). On October 25, the storm abruptly stalled and weakened off Gujarat, and progressed southwestward as a minimal storm. It was no longer classifiable as a tropical cyclone by October 28, although its remnants persisted until November 2 when they dissipated east of Somalia.In southern India, the storm dropped heavy rainfall that caused severe flooding in Andhra Pradesh. At least 112 reservoirs and dams were breached, killing 200 people in Prakasam district. The floodwaters ruined about 1,600,000 ha (4,000,000 acres) of crops and damaged around 53,000 houses, leaving thousands homeless. The floods killed 388 people in southern India and caused US$388 million in damage. The storm later brushed the west coast of India, stranding 50 boats. The Indian military helped with relief and rescue efforts. Another cyclone struck Andhra Pradesh in November, causing additional damage and deaths.
The Saguenay flood (French: Déluge du Saguenay) was a series of flash floods on July 19 and 20, 1996 that hit the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region of Quebec, Canada. It was the biggest overland flood in 20th-century Canadian history.Problems started after two weeks of constant rain, which severely engorged soils, rivers and reservoirs. The Saguenay region is a geological graben, which increased the effect of the sudden massive rains of July 19, 1996. In two days, rainfall accumulated that was "equivalent to the volume of water that tumbles over Niagara Falls in four weeks."Over 8 feet (2.4 m) of water flooded parts of Chicoutimi and La Baie, completely levelling an entire neighbourhood. More than 16,000 people were evacuated. The official death toll was seven, but other sources (notably Canadian Geographic) cite ten. Estimates reach CAD $1.5 billion in damages, a cost made greater by the disaster's occurrence at the height of the tourist season. Post-flood enquiries discovered that the network of dikes and dams protecting the city of Chicoutimi was poorly maintained. In the end, 488 homes were destroyed, 1,230 damaged, and 16,000 people evacuated from the entire area. An additional ten persons died in the mudslides produced by the incredible rain.A small white house (referred to in French as La petite maison blanche, "The little white house") stood nearly unharmed in Chicoutimi while torrents of water rushed in every side, and it became the symbol of surviving the flood. It was owned Mme Jeanne d'Arc Lavoie-Genest. With its foundation still highly exposed after the flooding, it has been preserved in Saguenay (the city name has changed) as a historical park and museum commemorating the flood.An unexpected effect of the flood was to cover the heavily contaminated sediments at the bottom of the Saguenay and Ha! Ha! Rivers with 10 to 50 centimetres (3.9 to 19.7 in) of new, relatively clean sediments. Because of this, research has shown that the old sediments are no longer a threat to ecosystems and the river will not have to be dredged and treated to control contamination.
The Willamette Valley Flood of 1996 was part of a larger series of floods in the Pacific Northwest of the United States which took place between late January and mid-February 1996. It was Oregon's largest flood event in terms of fatalities and monetary damage during the 1990s. The floods spread beyond Oregon's Willamette Valley, extending west to the Oregon Coast and east toward the Cascade Mountains. Significant flood damage also impacted the American states of Washington, Idaho (particularly the north of the state) and California. The floods were directly responsible for eight deaths in Oregon, as well as over US $500 million in property damage throughout the Pacific Northwest. Three thousand residents were displaced from their homes.
The 1997 Central European flood or the 1997 Oder Flood of the Oder and Morava river basins in July 1997 affected Poland, Germany, and the Czech Republic, taking the lives of about 100 people (in the Czech Republic and Poland) and causing material damages estimated at $4.5 billion (3.8 billion euros in the Czech Republic and Poland and 330 million euros in Germany). The flooding began in the Czech Republic, then spread to Poland and Germany. In Poland, where it was one of the most disastrous floods in the history of that country, it was named the Millennium Flood (Powódź tysiąclecia). The term was also used in Germany (Jahrtausendflut). The flood has also been referred to as the Great Flood of 1997.
The Red River flood of 1997 in the United States was a major flood that occurred in April 1997, along the Red River of the North in North Dakota and Minnesota. The flood reached throughout the Red River Valley, affecting the cities of Fargo and Winnipeg, while Grand Forks and East Grand Forks received the most damage, where floodwaters reached over 3 miles (5 km) inland, inundating virtually everything in the twin communities. Total damages for the Red River region were US$3.5 billion.The flood was the result of abundant snowfall and extreme temperatures. Although river levels in Fargo reached record heights, the city was protected by several dikes and received minimal damage. In Grand Forks, however, the river crested at 54 feet (16 m), surpassing the 49-foot (15 m) estimate of flooding set by the National Weather Service. Within East Grand Forks, all but eight homes were damaged by floodwaters. Grand Forks mayor Pat Owens had to order the evacuation of over 50,000 people as a large portion of the city would eventually be flooded. A large fire started in Grand Forks, engulfing eleven buildings and sixty apartment units before being extinguished.Those affected by the flood received donations from across the nation, along with billions in federal aid. City officials and flood-forecasters were criticized for the difference in estimates and actual flood levels. Fargo, Grand Forks, and East Grand Forks built new dikes to prevent damage from future floods and the Greater Grand Forks area began to rebuild around the river, developing a campground recreation area, park, and shopping districts where homes once stood.
The Red River flood of 1997 was a major flood that occurred in April and May 1997, along the Red River of the North in North Dakota, Minnesota, and Southern Manitoba. It was the most severe flood of the river since 1826. The flood reached throughout the Red River Valley, affecting the cities of Fargo and Winnipeg, but none so greatly as in Grand Forks and East Grand Forks, where floodwaters reached over 3 miles (4.8 km) inland, inundating virtually everything in the twin communities. Total damages for the Red River region were US$3.5 billion.The flood was the result of abundant snowfall and extreme temperatures.Flooding in Manitoba resulted in over $500 million in damages, although the Red River Floodway, an artificial waterway affectionately known as "Duff's Ditch" saved Winnipeg from flooding. This flood stimulated improvements to the flood protection system.In Grand Forks, thousands of people, including Air Force personnel from Grand Forks Air Force Base prepared for the flood by building sandbag dikes. These dikes were constructed based on a 49-foot estimate of flooding set by the National Weather Service, the river crested at 54 feet in Grand Forks. Grand Forks mayor Pat Owens had to order the evacuation of over 50,000 people as a large portion of the city was flooded. A large fire started in Grand Forks, engulfing eleven buildings and sixty apartment units before being extinguished.Those affected by the flood in the U.S. received donations from across the nation, along with billions in federal aid. City officials and flood-forecasters were criticized for the difference in estimates and actual flood levels. Grand Forks and East Grand Forks built new dikes to prevent damages from future floods and began to rebuild around the river, developing a campground recreation area, park, and shopping districts where homes once stood.
The 1998 Katherine floods began in January 1998 affecting the town of Katherine, Northern Territory Australia. As floodwaters continued downstream the community of Daly River was entirely inundated. The water continued to rise into early February. The floods killed three and caused widespread damage to infrastructure and local industry. The estimated damages from the flood totalled $200 million. The 1998 flood is classified as a 1 in 200 to 1 in 500-year event and is the largest flood on record to affect both Katherine and Daly River.
The 1998 Townsville and Thuringowa city floods  began on 10 January 1998, the cities of Townsville and Thuringowa were hit by the worst floods in the cities' history.
The 1998 China floods (1998年中国洪水) were a series of floods that lasted from middle of June to the beginning of September 1998 in China at the Yangtze River as well as the Nen River, Songhua River and the Pearl River.
The 1999 Blayais Nuclear Power Plant flood was a flood that took place on the evening of December 27, 1999. It was caused when a combination of the tide and high winds from the extratropical storm Martin led to the seawalls of the Blayais Nuclear Power Plant in France being overwhelmed. The event resulted in the loss of the plant's off-site power supply and knocked out several safety-related systems, resulting in a Level 2 event on the International Nuclear Event Scale. The incident illustrated the potential for flooding to damage multiple items of equipment throughout a plant, weaknesses in safety measures, systems and procedures, and resulted in fundamental changes to the evaluation of flood risk at nuclear power plants and in the precautions taken.
In October 1999, severe flooding affected portions of eastern Mexico and Central America. Rainfall in September preceded the primary event in Mexico, which moistened soils. On October 4, Tropical Depression Eleven developed in the Gulf of Mexico, which drew humidity from the gulf and the Pacific Ocean to produce torrential rainfall in mountainous regions of eastern Mexico, reaching 43.23 in (1,098 mm) in Jalacingo, Veracruz. This was the third-highest tropical cyclone-related rainfall total in Mexico from 1980-2006, and the event caused the highest rainfall related to tropical cyclones in Veracruz, Hidalgo, and Puebla. In some locations, the daily rainfall represented over 10% of the annual precipitation total. The heaviest rainfall occurred in mountainous regions that were the mouths of several rivers. A broad trough absorbed the depression on October 6, and rainfall continued for the next few days. Additional rainfall occurred in Tabasco state on October 18. The floods were estimated as a 1 in 67 year event in one location, although such floods are expected to affect eastern Mexico twice per century, the last time being 1944.Throughout Mexico, the floods killed at least 379 people, according to the federal government, and as many as 600 according to relief agencies; the Centre for Research on the Epidemiology of Disasters later estimated there were 636 deaths, and damage in Mexico was estimated at $451.3 million (4.3 billion pesos). Nationwide, the floods damaged or destroyed 90,000 houses, which left about 500,000 people homeless. Flooding caused thousands of landslides, many in more populated areas than the flooding in 1944. The floods also caused 39 rivers to overflow, and the combination of floods and landslides destroyed bridges, houses, widespread crop fields, schools, and electrical networks. Impact was worst in Puebla, where damage totaled $240 million (2.1 billion pesos) and many roads were washed out. Landslides in the state killed 107 people in Teziutlán. Elsewhere in the country, the floods washed crocodiles into the streets of Villahermosa, the capital of Tabasco, and in Oaxaca, the rainfall occurred after an earthquake left thousands homeless. Flooding also extended into Central America in late September through early October, causing $40 million (385 million pesos) in crop damage and 70 deaths.After the floods receded, Mexican President Ernesto Zedillo ordered the Department of National Defense to utilize all resources to assist the people affected by the floods. More than 94,000 people stayed at 896 shelters after being evacuated due to the floods. The federal government allocated $234 million (2.34 billion pesos) in relief, which was smaller than the damage total. Widespread medical teams assisted tens of thousands of homes, and due to prevention measures, there were no outbreaks of diseases. Roads and electrical systems were gradually restored, and students returned to school after repairs were made. Residents throughout Mexico sent supplies to the Mexican Red Cross, including 500 tons of food and water, and international agencies sent money and supplies to the flood victims.
The 1999 Pentecost flood (German: Pfingsthochwasser 1999) was a 100-year flood around the Pentecost season in 1999 that mostly affected Bavaria, Vorarlberg and Tirol. It was caused by heavy rainfall coinciding with the regular Alpine meltwater.By late May, the annual spring meltwater from the Alps meant many Bavarian rivers were already at a high water level. On May 22 the rainstorm "Quartus" hit the northern Alps, bringing an additional 180 litres/m², causing the Ammersee and the Amper and Isar rivers to expand and flood large areas. These flooded areas expanded quickly covering parts of the Oberallgäu on the river Iller. The flood then continued downstream to some of the more inhabited areas in Bavaria.The water level of the Isar, which flows through Munich, was lowered by the Sylvensteinspeicher reservoir near Bad Tölz. However causeways on the Iller failed, flooding Sonthofen, parts of Augsburg and Neustadt. In Hindelang-Hinterstein the flood reached a peak not recorded in the previous 250 years. A subsequent Alpine highwater on 23-24 August 2005 again did damage to these areas.In the Vorarlberg area the Rhine flood affected Lake Constance damaging Hard and Bregenz.In Tirol the village Pflach in Lechtal was flooded.
Saxetenbach Gorge is a narrow ravine near Interlaken above Lake Brienz in Switzerland.
The 1999 Vargas tragedy was a disaster that struck the Vargas State of Venezuela on 15 December 1999, when the torrential rains and the flash floods and debris flows that followed on December 14–16 which killed tens of thousands of people, destroyed thousands of homes, and led to the complete collapse of the state's infrastructure. According to relief workers, the neighborhood of Los Corales was buried under 3 metres (9.8 ft) of mud and a high percentage of homes were simply swept away to the ocean. Whole towns like Cerro Grande and Carmen de Uria completely disappeared. As much as 10% of the population of Vargas perished during this event.
The 1999 Vietnamese floods affected Vietnam in late 1999 and were the worst floods the country had experienced in a century. The floods were caused by a series of storms that brought heavy rain to the central part of the country in October and November. The first storm to hit was Tropical Storm Eve on October 19 and the main event occurred from November 1-November 6.In total 793 people lost their lives and 55,000 were made homeless. The floods caused $290 million of damage to the region and caused a further $490 million of economic losses. It is estimated that 1.7 million people in the central Provinces of Vietnam were affected by the floods.
The Autumn of 2000 was the wettest recorded in the United Kingdom since my name records began in 1766.Several regions of Atlantic Europe from France to Norway received double their average rainfall and there were severe floods and landslides in the southern Alps. In October and November 2000 a successive series of extratropical cyclones caused severe flooding across the UK.The United Kingdom saw the most extensive nationwide flooding event since the snow-melt of 1947. Prior to 1947, three similar events occurred in the second half of the 19th century where prolonged rainfall led to widespread flooding throughout England in the month of November, namely 1894, 1875, and 1852.The combined effect of the storms across Western Europe caused flooding throughout the United Kingdom. Two storm events (Nicole and Oratia) 28 November to 3 November, and the storm Rebekka from 4 November, resulted in continuous flooding. 10,000 homes were flooded in 700 locations. Peak flows on the Rivers Thames, Trent, Severn, Wharfe and Dee were the highest for 60 years. The River Ouse in Yorkshire reached the highest level since the 17th century.In the United Kingdom a series of severe floods affected large parts of the country in the Autumn of 2000. The worst affected areas were Kent and Sussex during October and Shropshire, Worcestershire and Yorkshire in November. The Autumn of 2000 was the wettest on record in the England and Wales precipitation record with several major rainfall events causing flooding in different parts of the country during October and November. England and Wales had an average of 503 mm of rain from September–November exceeding the previous record by nearly 50 mm.
The 2000 Mozambique flood was a natural disaster that occurred in February and March 2000. The catastrophic flooding was caused by heavy rainfall that lasted for five weeks and made many homeless. Approximately 700 people were killed. 1,400 km² of arable land was affected and 20,000 herds of cattle were lost. It was the worst flood in Mozambique in 50 years.It started in South Africa when heavy rain falls traveled over to Mozambique. It caused dozens of deaths. 44,000 were left homeless and many of them had lost relatives of some kind. Later, Cyclone Eline came and destroyed many more homes and lives. The women and children were hurrying to shelter and high land. 800 had died and thousands of livestock were killed. The government distributed 15 million dollars to its citizens to account for damage property and loss of income. Even now in 2016, people are still living in recovery shelters with fluctuating water supplies.
In August 2002 a flood caused by over a week of continuous heavy rains ravaged Europe, killing dozens, dispossessing thousands, and causing damage of billions of euros in the Czech Republic, Austria, Germany, Slovakia, Poland, Hungary, Romania and Croatia. The flood was of a magnitude expected to occur roughly once a century.
The 2002 Glasgow floods were a series of Flash floods that occurred after Thunderstorms in the Scottish Lowlands in late July and early August 2002. The heaviest rainfall fell on the night of Tuesday 30 July 2002.The East End of Glasgow was the worst affected district of the city, 200 people were evacuated from their homes in Greenfield and Shettleston on the Tuesday night.  The antiquated 19th century storm drain and sewer system in that area, having received minimal investment from Scottish Water, was blamed due to its inability to deal with the high capacity of Surface runoff. Many of the homes affected were in working class areas and as a result did not have contents insurance.The West Coast Main Line, Glasgow to Edinburgh via Carstairs Line and Queen Street station were closed as a result of flooding and landslides. A number of roads were also badly affected by flooding in Sighthill, Springburn as well as the main A82 and A8 roads. Buchanan Street subway station on the Glasgow Subway was closed, although trains continued to run through the station without stopping. Parts of the Argyle Line were also flooded, with low-level stations from Dalmarnock through to Exhibition Centre closed for a number of weeks.On 4 August 2002, the water parasite cryptosporidium was discovered in Mugdock Reservoir at Milngavie water treatment works as a result of the flooding. Cryptosporidium can cause severe diarrhea. About 140,000 people in Glasgow were affected, they were told not to drink tap water without boiling it first. This later led to a major redevelopment of the Milngavie water treatment works.
The Jacobs Creek Flood, also referred to as the Kansas Turnpike Flash Flood, was a flash flood of the Jacobs Creek that occurred on the night of August 30, 2003, 11 miles (18 km) southwest of Emporia, Kansas, on the Kansas Turnpike (Interstate 35). The deadly flash flood occurred on Labor Day weekend and killed six people, five inside of vehicles swept away by the floodwaters and one person who was attempting to rescue those trapped.
This article is about the flooding of Santa Fe, capital of the province of Santa Fe, Argentina, in April 2003. Santa Fe is the fifth most populated city in Argentina (~370,000 inhabitants), and it is surrounded by rivers. The flooding was described as the worst since the city was founded in 1573.At the end of April 2003, several days of heavy rainfall caused some major rivers in the Santa Fe area to rise as much as 50 cm in 12 hours. The water level of the Salado River (which flows through the north of the province and empties into the Paraná) rose by almost two metres in just three hours.On 28 April, the Salado overflowed its margins and flooded large sections of Santa Fe. About 100,000 people had to be evacuated, 154 people died, and 28,000 houses were damaged or destroyed. A dyke had to be blown up in order for ease the flow of the floodwaters out of the city. In this key area for the agricultural and ranching industries, over 30,000 km² of farmland were destroyed. The flood hit the capital hardest, but many other communities were also affected.The flood was unusual because it is generally the east side of Santa Fe, beside the Paraná, which is affected by floodings. Salado River floodings are less usual.Soon after the initial flooding, President Eduardo Duhalde declared the province a "disaster zone" and announced a $2 million emergency aid package. The World Bank later offered an additional $110 million. The Red Cross launched an emergency appeal in response to the flooding on 6 May.According to a UN assessment requested by the provincial governor Carlos Reutemann, the total damages were about $1,000 million, and implied the loss of about 12% of Santa Fe's GDP.The rains continued into the next days, exacerbating the catastrophe. As of 8 May, a quarter of Santa Fe remained under water. Precarious evacuation centres appeared in the capital and nearby towns to accommodate the evacuees.The provincial government was heavily criticized for ignoring warnings about the possibility of a sudden rise of the Salado River, and for ignoring appeals to build the necessary preventive infrastructure to contain or divert floods. The official treatment of the people who lost their homes, possessions and jobs was also questioned; food relief and promised subsidies for reconstruction were insufficient. Governor Reutemann saw the end of his term in office marked by these problems. The critical situation of Argentina at the time (recovering from a major economic crisis) did not help. On 30 January 2004, nine months after the flood and under the administration of Jorge Obeid, a demonstration asking for government assistance to those affected by the flood ended with the burning of the government house's facade and several offices destroyed.
The Boscastle flood of 2004 (Cornish: An Lanwes Kastel Boterel 2004) occurred on Monday, 16 August 2004 in the two villages of Boscastle and Crackington Haven in Cornwall, England, United Kingdom. The villages suffered extensive damage after flash floods caused by an exceptional amount of rain that fell over eight hours that afternoon. The flood in Boscastle was filmed and extensively reported but the floods in Crackington Haven and Rocky Valley were not mentioned beyond the local news. The floods were the worst in local memory. A study commissioned by the Environment Agency from hydraulics consulting firm HR Wallingford concluded that it was among the most extreme ever experienced in Britain. The peak flow was about 140 m³/s, between 5:00pm and 6:00pm BST. The annual chance of this (or a greater) flood in any one year is about 1 in 400. The probability each year of the heaviest three-hour rainfall is about 1 in 1300 (although rainfall probability is not the same as flood probability). At midday on 16 August 2004, heavy thundery showers had developed across the South West due to a weak disturbance to the northeast of the United Kingdom.The last time Boscastle had suffered notable flooding was in 1996 as a result of Hurricane Lili, but floods are recorded in 1847, 1957, 3 June 1958 (one man drowned) and 1963. On 16 August 1952 the small town of Lynmouth, 50 miles (80 km) north-east along the north coast in Devon near Exmoor, suffered extensive damage in a catastrophic flood, in which 34 people lost their lives. Coincidentally, this was 52 years to the day before Boscastle's 2004 flood.
The May 2004 Caribbean floods were a flood event that took place in the Caribbean Islands, mainly Hispaniola and some parts of Northern Puerto Rico from May 18, 2004 to May 25, 2004.The storm caused significant rainfall, with over 9.7 inches of rain falling at the most in Haiti, and 10 inches falling at the most in the Dominican Republic. These floods were caused by over two weeks of persistent rain in the Caribbean area, which eventually caused the landslides that killed many people. The floods caused much damage in Haiti and the Dominican Republic, with over 1,300 homes being destroyed and about 2,000 people being killed.Due to this destruction, nearly 15,000 people were displaced with nowhere to live. The area that felt the worst of the flooding was the town of Jimani, near the border of Haiti and the Dominican Republic.In fact, the destruction present at Jimani was so bad that Dominican president Hipolito Mejia declared a national day of mourning after seeing the effects of the storm.
The 2005 Chennai floods were some of the worst floods to have hit the city of Chennai, India. The floods occurred during the North-East monsoon season (November-December 2005) as a result of heavy rain. Over 50 people were killed in two incidents of stampede for food and money in relief camps.
The 2005 European floods hit mainly Romania, Switzerland, Austria and Germany, as well as several other countries in Central Europe and Eastern Europe during August 2005. The disaster came at a time when Portugal was suffering from intense forest fires which left 15 dead and days before the powerful Hurricane Katrina hit the United States.
The Los Angeles County Flood of 2005 was the first large flood in Los Angeles County since 1938. It centered in communities near the Los Angeles River or near creeks connected to the Los Angeles River, and affected areas ranging from Santa Barbara County in the north to Orange and San Diego Counties in the south, as well as Riverside and San Bernardino Counties to the east. Large amounts of rain in the Los Angeles County area caused the Los Angeles River basin to overflow. Three people were killed. The flood caused a bridge to collapse (near Malibu, California) and major rockslides that washed away hillside houses and caused people in some areas to evacuate their homes. Although the flood was considered large, the Red Cross did not evaluate the damage it caused.
The Shalan Town Flood of 2005 was a severe flood which occurred in Shalan Town in the afternoon on 10 June 2005. A severe flood and mudslide took place in Shalan Town located in Ning'an, which was in Mudanjiang area in Heilongjiang Province, a province in the People's Republic of China. Shalan Town Central Primary School was submerged by floodwater, killing 117 people, 105 of which were students.
2006 floods could refer to a number of flooding incidents in 2006:Mid-Atlantic United States flood of 20062006 European floods2006-07 Southeast Asian floods2006-2007 Malaysian floods2006 North Korea floodingSouthwest floods of 2006See alsoWeather in 2006 for an overviewList of notable floodsFloods in the United States: 2001-present
From February to April 2006 many rivers across Europe, especially the Elbe and Danube, swelled due to heavy rain and melting snow and rose to record levels. These are the longest rivers in Central Europe.
The 2006–2007 Southeast Asian floods were a series of floods that mostly affected Malaysia from 18 December 2006 to 13 January 2007. The floods were caused by above average rainfall, which was attributed to Typhoon Utor which had hit the Philippines and Vietnam a few days earlier. By the third week of January 2007, Johor had been affected by a larger flood. Singapore and certain parts of Indonesia were flooded due to the same typhoon.Throughout the week starting 18 December 2006, a series of floods hit Johor, Malacca, Pahang and Negeri Sembilan. During this period, these southern Malaysian states, along with Singapore, experienced abnormally high rainfall which resulted in massive floods. The rainfall recorded in the city of Johor Bahru on 19 December amounted to 289mm compared to the average annual rainfall of the city which is 2400mm. In Singapore, the 24-hour rainfall recorded on 20 December was 366 mm, the third highest recorded rainfall in 75 years.The flooding began when torrential downpours since Sunday caused rivers and dams to overflow. Weather officials described the flooding as the worst in the area in a century. At least six people died.Later that week, beginning 22 December, North Sumatra experienced abnormally high rainfall which also caused flooding
The Mid-Atlantic United States flood of 2006 was a significant flood that affected much of the Mid-Atlantic region of the eastern United States. The flooding was very widespread, affecting numerous rivers, lakes and communities from upstate New York to North Carolina. It was widely considered to be the worst flooding in the region since Hurricane David in 1979. It was also one of the worst floodings in the United States since Hurricane Katrina in August 2005. At least 16 deaths were related to the flooding.
The New England Flood of May 2006 was a flood event that occurred in New England, especially in New Hampshire and Massachusetts, during the month of May, 2006. It started on May 11, 2006 as a result of an unusually strong low pressure system that stalled over the central United States, drawing copious amounts of moisture from the Atlantic Ocean. Most of this moisture was drawn directly over New England, producing continuous heavy rain that led to record flooding near several rivers. It was described as the worst flooding since the New England Hurricane of 1938. There were no reports of injuries or fatalities. Some called it the Mother's Day Flood, since it occurred on that holiday.
Flooding in North Korea in July 2006 caused extensive damage and loss of life, although reports differ about its extent.
2007 floods may refer to:2006-2007 Malaysian floods2007 United Kingdom floods2007 South Asian floods2007 Sudan floodsJune 2007 Hunter Region and Central Coast storms2007 Midwest flooding in the United States2007 Mozambican flood2007 North Korea flooding2007 Jakarta floodMarch 2007 floods in the Argentine littoralJune 2007 Texas flooding2007 Tabasco flood
The 2007 Bihar flood, which started in August 2007, was described by the United Nations as the worst flood in the "living memory" of Bihar. It is believed to be the worst flood in Bihar in the last 30 years. By 3 August, the estimated death toll was 41 people, and 48 schoolgirls were marooned in a school in the Darbhanga district. By 8 August, the flooding had affected an estimated 10 million people in Bihar. Army helicopters delivered food packets to Bihar residents and 180 relief camps were established. By 10 August, aid workers in Bihar reported that there was a dramatic increase of people with diarrhoea and by 11 August, flood deaths were still occurring.
The 2007 floods of Africa was reported by the UN to be one of the worst floodings in recorded history. The flooding started with rains on September 14, 2007 local time. Over 14 countries had been affected in the continent of Africa, 250 people were reported to have been killed by the flooding and 1.5 million were affected. The UN had issued warnings of water borne diseases and locust infestations.
The littoral region of Argentina underwent heavy rainstorms in the early autumn season of 2007. Starting in late March and ending in mid-April, the rains caused several major rivers to rise and/or overflow their banks, partly or completely flooded many towns and large cities, ruined a significant part of the crops in a wide region, and severely damaged the physical infrastructure. At least fifteen people were killed as a result of the flooding.
The 2007 Jakarta flood was a major flood in Jakarta, the capital of Indonesia and affected several other areas around the city, such as West Java and Banten. The flood, beginning on February 2, 2007 was a result of heavy rain, deforestation in areas south of the city, and waterways clogged with debris. The flood is considered the worst in the last three centuries, including the 1996 and 2002 Jakarta floods, which killed 10 and 25 people respectively.The final official death toll was 80.
The 2007 Midwest flooding was a major flooding event that occurred in the Midwestern United States in the third week of August 2007. While Hurricane Dean was affecting the Yucatán Peninsula and the Gulf of Mexico, and Tropical Storm Erin was affecting Oklahoma and Texas, a persistent storm system hung over the Midwest for several days, causing repeated flash flooding in the US states of Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Minnesota, Ohio, and Wisconsin. Cool Canadian air clashed with large quantities of warm moist air from the Gulf, producing torrential rains along a stationary front. Eighteen deaths across the central United States were attributed to the resulting flooding. Seven Minnesota counties, eight Ohio counties, fourteen counties in Wisconsin, and seven counties in Illinois were declared Federal Disaster Areas.
The 2007 Mozambican flood began in late December 2006 when the Cahora Bassa Dam overflowed from heavy rains on Southern Africa. It worsened on February 22, 2007 when the Category 4 Cyclone Favio made landfall on the central province of Inhambane; experts tracking the cyclone predicted that it would worsen flooding in the Zambezi River valley. The Zambezi River broke its banks, flooding the surrounding areas in Mozambique. The Chire and Rivubue rivers also flooded.80,600 people had been evacuated from their homes in the Tete, Manica, Sofala and Zambezia provinces by February 14. By February 22, the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs reported that approximately 121,000 people had been displaced by the flooding. Some people refused to leave their homes and livestock. There were 29 confirmed casualties and a further 10 unconfirmed deaths.In early February, the Mozambican authorities did not think the flooding would be as devastating as the 2000 and 2001 floods. Paulo Zucula, head of Mozambique's national relief agency, said "We expect more water than we had in 2001. The situation is deteriorating and it will get worse but this time we are better prepared than in 2001". The World Food Program (WFP) estimated that up to 285,000 people may require food aid. Delivery of food aid by the WFP began on February 15. A single UN helicopter was made available for the delivery of aid to evacuation centres. However, thousands of people had not yet received food or drinking water, and the threat of disease outbreaks had also increased; Paulo Zucula retracted his earlier comments about readiness, saying "We were not prepared... it's another disaster".
Flooding in North Korea in August 2007 caused extensive damage and loss of life. The flooding affected most of the southern half of the country including the capital and some of its most productive agricultural regions. Aid officials feared the loss of crop land could seriously hinder the North’s ability to feed its people, causing widespread famine.
The North Sea flood of 2007 also known as Cyclone Tilo, and as Andrea in Norway was a storm tide of the North Sea affecting the coastlines of the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Germany, Denmark, Norway and Belgium, starting on the night of 8–9 November 2007.
The 2007 Shandong coal mine flood was an incident that occurred on August 17, 2007 in Xintai, Shandong, People's Republic of China, when heavy rain caused a river to burst a levee creating a flood into two mine shafts. By 8:50 am (1:50GMT), the mine was inundated underwater.
On 3 July 2007, flash floods started to devastate many parts of Sudan, including some areas in Darfur and Southern Sudan.
The 2007 Tabasco flood occurred in late October and early November 2007 in the Mexican states of Tabasco and Chiapas, in which as much as 80% of the former was left under water. At least 20,000 people were forced to seek emergency shelter. Over 1,000,000 residents were affected.
The June 2007 Texas flooding occurred after heavy rains hit the Southern Plains of the United States. Moisture from the Gulf Mexico flowed north creating a slow-moving frontal system. Approximately 200 millimeters (8 inches) of rain poured in northern Texas, and 11 flood-related deaths were reported.
A series of destructive floods occurred in parts of the United Kingdom during the summer of 2007. The worst of the flooding occurred across Scotland on 12 June; East Yorkshire and The Midlands on 15 June; Yorkshire, The Midlands, Gloucestershire, Herefordshire and Worcestershire on 25 June; and Gloucestershire, Herefordshire, Worcestershire, Oxfordshire, Berkshire and South Wales on 28 July 2007.June was one of the wettest months on record in Britain (see List of weather records). Average rainfall across the country was 5.5 inches (140 mm); more than double the June average. Some areas received a month's worth of precipitation in 24 hours. It was Britain's wettest May–July since records began in 1776. July had unusually unsettled weather and above-average rainfall through the month, peaking on 20 July as an active frontal system dumped more than 4.7 inches (120 mm) of rain in southern England.Civil and military authorities described the June and July rescue efforts as the biggest in peacetime Britain. The Environment Agency described the July floods as critical and expected them to exceed the 1947 benchmark.
2008 floods may refer to:2008 Benin floods2008 Bihar flood2008 Indian floodsIowa flood of 20082008 Irish flash floodsEarly Spring 2008 Midwest floodsJune 2008 Midwest floods2008 Namibia floods2008 Papua New Guinea floods2008 Santa Catarina floods2008 South China floods2008 Tanana Valley flood2008 Vietnam floods2008 Yemen cyclone
The 2008 Benin floods struck the nation of Benin between July and October 2008, and affected the other West African nations of Burkina Faso, Mali, Mauritania, Niger and Togo. According to the Red Cross of Benin, the flooding in Benin initially affected almost 7,000 people, including the displacement of 1,560 children. and by August 19, 2008, the World Health Organization (WHO) estimated that the flooding had displaced at least 150,000 people. Some 500,000 people in total were at risk of additional flooding.
The 2008 Bihar flood was one of the most disastrous floods in the history of Bihar, an impoverished and densely populated state in India. The Kosi embankment near the Indo-Nepal border (at Kusaha VDC, Sunsari district, Nepal) broke on 18 August 2008. The river changed course and flooded areas which had not been flooded in many decades. The flood affected over 2.3 million people in the northern part of Bihar.
The 2008 Indian floods were a series of floods in various states of India during the 2008 monsoon season. The floods mostly affected the western regions of Maharashtra state and Andhra Pradesh as well as northern Bihar. In India, the monsoon season generally lasts from June to September.According to Ministry of Home Affairs (India)'s disaster management unit, the countrywide death toll from floods in various states was 2,404 between June to September.
The Iowa flood of 2008 was a hydrological event involving most of the rivers in eastern Iowa beginning around June 8, 2008 and ending about July 1. Flooding continued on the Upper Mississippi River in the southeastern portion of the state for several more days. The phrase "Iowa's Katrina" was often heard.The flooding included (from north to south, east to west), the Upper Iowa River, the Turkey, and the Maquoketa Rivers; outside of the Driftless Area, they include the catchments of the Wapsipinicon River and that of the Iowa River, to include the latter's major tributary, the Cedar River (and its significant tributaries); and the Skunk River in its various forks. The Des Moines River had some minor flooding, but floodwalls and levees for the most part held fast. The Upper Mississippi River which receives the outflow from all these rivers remained at flood stage.The flooding of Cedar Rapids and Iowa City were the most significant events. Recovery in particular for Cedar Rapids is considered to be a protracted and costly affair. For Iowa City, the level of damage was less than expected, but that of Cedar Rapids was greater than anticipated. In Iowa City, the campus of the University of Iowa was vulnerable, and serious flooding did occur there.President George W. Bush landed on Air Force One at The Eastern Iowa Airport on June 20. He toured on foot and by helicopter the Cedar Rapids and Iowa City region. On the same day, Senator John McCain made a stop in Columbus Junction.
The 2008 Irish flash floods were a series of flash floods that occurred across the island of Ireland in August 2008. The floods and related weather conditions primarily affected the following counties; Limerick, Cork, Dublin, Antrim, Carlow, Galway, Laois, Louth, Meath, Kildare, Kilkenny, Tipperary, Offaly, Sligo and Donegal. Parts of Ireland's large urban centres, including Dublin and Belfast, were submerged, whilst Carlow town has experienced some of the worst flooding in the country. One person died; 31-year-old Polish dad-of-one Przemyslaw Jablonski. He went missing in the River Fergus, in Ennis, and was found 6 days later (on 18 August) in the same river. He was pronounced dead at the scene.
The March 2008 Midwest floods were a massive flooding event in the Southern Midwest and portions of the Southern Plains. Cape Girardeau, Missouri officially reported 11.48 inches (29.2 cm) between March 18 and 19. At least 17 people died as a result of the flooding. Levee breaks were observed in several areas, most notably in Southeastern Missouri, where levee breaks occurred through mid-April.
The June 2008 Midwestern United States floods were flooding events which affected portions of the Midwest United States. After months of heavy precipitation, a number of rivers overflowed their banks for several weeks at a time and broke through levees at numerous locations. Flooding continued into July. States affected by the flooding included Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, and Wisconsin. The American Red Cross assisted the victims of flooding and tornadoes across seven states and the National Guard was mobilized to assist in disaster relief and evacuation.Flooding continued as long as two weeks with central Iowa and Cedar Rapids being hardest hit. The upper Mississippi Valley experienced flooding in Missouri and Illinois as the region's estuaries drained the floodwater into the river. The flood left thirteen dead and damage region-wide was estimated to be in the tens of billions of dollars.
The 2008 Namibia floods began in early February 2008 and killed 42 people by early March. An estimated 250,000 people, primarily in the former Ovamboland regions of Oshana, Ohangwena, Omusati and Oshikoto, were left stranded without outside access except by helicopter, with another 65,000 facing displacement. It was part of larger regional flooding across Southern Africa. On 14 March, the United Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs triggered the International Charter "Space and Major Disasters" to help to the country battle a cholera outbreak.Deputy Prime Minister Libertine Amathila declared that the government would spend 65 million Namibian dollars to assist the displaced.
The 2008 Papua New Guinea floods displaced roughly 75,000 people located in Papua New Guinea, prompting an international response to provide support for the region. The country was struck by large sea Template:Swell (ocean) on 16 December, apparently caused by "strong storms", which affected over eight provinces and caused at least one death.
The 2008 Santa Catarina floods were floods in the Santa Catarina, Brazil in November 2008. It occurred after a period of heavy rainfall during late November 2008, most significantly during days 20, 21, 22 and 23 of November. The state suffered constant rainfalls for over two months (during late September, October, and November) on the coast, which turned the soil wet enough to cause a landslide during the storm that hit the state in late November. It affected around 60 towns and over 1.5 million people in the state of Santa Catarina in Brazil. At least 128 people are confirmed to have been killed  with over 78,700 being forced to evacuate their homes. A further 150,000 have been left without electricity, while water rationing is being carried out in at least one town due to purification problems. Santa Catarina state Governor Luiz Henrique da Silveira had earlier suggested that the final death toll was likely to be over 50, a figure that has proved optimistic. Several towns in the region have become cut off due to floodwater and landslide debris and on November 23 the Mayor of Blumenau, João Paulo Kleinubing, declared a state of emergency in the city. Water levels in the Vale do Itajaí have risen to eleven metres above normal.
The 2008 South China floods began on 26 May 2008. Four rounds of torrential rains with landslides and flooding lasted for 20 days and affected fifteen provinces in Eastern and Southern China.The first round of floods affected twelve provinces in South China and killed 93 people as of 30 May. A new round of floods began on 6 June and swept nine provinces in southern China killing 55 people with 7 missing and forcing 1.3 million to evacuate as of 14 June. China's National Meteorological Centre has said that heavy rain would continue and that precipitation in the provinces of Guizhou, Sichuan and Yunnan would be 30 to 70% greater than in the same period last year.
The 2008 Tanana Valley flood or the 2008 Fairbanks flood was a flood in late July and early August 2008 that affected several rivers in the central portion of the American state of Alaska. The city of Fairbanks, Alaska saw high water levels, while the towns of Nenana, Salcha, and Old Minto received heavy damage. The Salcha River and Tanana River reached their second-highest levels since record-keeping began (the highest was during the 1967 Tanana Valley Flood), while the Chena River, which bisects Fairbanks, was kept below flood stage by the use of the Chena River Lakes Flood Control Project.Several hundred homes were inundated by the flood in Fairbanks, Salcha, unincorporated Fairbanks North Star Borough, Nenana, and smaller villages, but due to early warnings from the National Weather Service, volunteer fire departments, and the borough's emergency contact system, no one was injured. The area affected by the flood was declared a state disaster area, making residents whose homes were flooded eligible for state aid. The long-term effects of the flood, including its effect on the salmon spawning season, are as yet unknown.
The 2008 Vietnam floods affected north and central Vietnam, as well as southern parts of the People's Republic of China after three days of heavy raining. The rainfall, which began October 30, is the heaviest in 24 years, a state meteorological official told the Vietnam News Agency, and were the worst floods in Hanoi since 1984. At least 66 in Vietnam and 34 in China have been killed because of the flooding. Overall, 15,000 families evacuated their homes, and almost 100 schools, 100,000 houses, 241,000 hectares of crops, and 25,400 hectares of fish farms were submerged or damaged in the floodwaters.
In October 2008, the remnants of a tropical cyclone caused extensive damage in Yemen, a poor country on the southern tip of the Arabian Peninsula. The storm, officially known as Deep Depression ARB 02, was the sixth tropical cyclone of the 2008 North Indian Ocean cyclone season, and the second tropical cyclone in the Arabian Sea that year. It formed on October 19 off the west coast of India from the same broader system that spawned a storm in the southern Indian Ocean. Moving generally westward, the depression failed to intensify much, reaching maximum sustained winds of only 55 km/h (35 mph). It was no longer classifiable as a tropical depression by October 23, and later that day, its remnants struck near Ash Shihr in eastern Yemen.The storm sent a plume of moisture throughout the Arabian Peninsula, contributing to dust storms as far north as Iraq. However, the effects were most severe in Yemen, becoming the second-worst natural disaster in the country after deadly floods in 1996. The storm dropped heavy rainfall in a normally arid region, reaching around 91 mm (3.6 in), which caused flash flooding in valleys after waterways were unable to contain the approximately 2 billion km3 (528 billion gallons) of water that fell. Poor drainage practices and an invasive species of weed contributed to the floods, which damaged or destroyed 6,505 houses, leaving about 25,000 people homeless. The floods killed 180 people and severely disrupted the livelihoods of about 700,000 residents of Hadhramaut and Al Mahrah governorates, mostly farmers whose fields were washed away. Some of the buildings at the Shibam UNESCO World Heritage Site collapsed due to the floods. Overall damage was estimated at US$874.8 million, although residual losses from damaged infrastructure were estimated to cost an additional US$726.9 million. The overall economic impact of the storm was therefore estimated at US$1.638 billion, equating to roughly 6% of the country's gross domestic product.After the scale of the damage became clear, the government of Yemen requested for assistance from the international community. The hardest hit areas had poor infrastructure, which caused difficulties in communications as relief goods were distributed. Nations in the region, including Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, sent money and supplies to help rebuild the damaged infrastructure and houses. Agencies under the United Nations provided food and logistical support. Relief efforts continued to make progress until 2011 due to a political uprising in Yemen.
During the twenty-four hours before Friday 20 November 2009, rainfall of over 300 mm was recorded in Cumbria. Flooding along the Borrowdale and Derwent Valley meant that some areas were up to 8 feet (2.44 m) deep in water. The surge of water off the fells of the Lake District which flowed into Workington down the River Derwent washed away a road bridge and a footbridge. PC Bill Barker was killed when Northside Bridge collapsed. The cemetery at Camerton, historically the burial ground for the community of Seaton, was badly damaged with many gravestones being damaged or upturned.Shortly after the town was divided, Network Rail announced the construction of a new railway station, Workington North railway station, to be completed within a week on land owned by the local council, to enable access across the river for residents.
The 2009 Alaska floods were a series of natural disasters taking place in the United States state of Alaska during April and May 2009. The floods are a result of heavier-than-typical winter snowfall and above-average spring temperatures that resulted in rapid melting of the winter snowfall. The resulting high water levels were aggravated in places by the development of ice dams that caused catastrophic flooding. The record-breaking flood that affected Eagle, Alaska in early May is the best example of an ice dam causing flooding beyond the norm.
The 2009 Angola, Namibia and Zambia floods was a natural disaster which began in early March 2009 and resulted in the deaths of at least 131 people and otherwise affected around 445,000 people. The floods affected seven regions of Namibia, three provinces of Zambia, two regions of Angola and part of Botswana. The floodwaters damaged buildings and infrastructure and displaced at least 300,000 people. A state of emergency was declared in northern Namibia and there were fears that a disease epidemic would ensue. The Red Cross agencies and governments of the two countries responded to the disaster, and aid was distributed by the World Health Organisation.
The 2009 Brazilian floods and mudslides were a severe natural disaster principally affecting five northeastern states of Brazil. As a result of heavy rains, fourteen people were reported dead over a period of one month and at least 62,600 others had been left homeless as of 2 May 2009. Nineteen people were dead by 5 May 2009, with a significant increase in homeless people being reported, estimated at 186,000. The death toll by 8 May was thirty-nine and 270,000 people were reported homeless.The state of Santa Catarina in the South of the country has also been damaged. A total of seven states have been affected across the country. Maranhão was the worst affected state, with at least six deaths and at least 40,700 homeless people occupying shelters.The Amazon River Basin suffered its second heaviest flood in one hundred years during this period. These are already the worst floods Brazil has experienced in over twenty years.Reconstruction from the floods and mudslides are expected to take 3–5 years.
The 2009 European floods were a series of natural disasters that took place in June 2009 in Central Europe. Austria, the Czech Republic, Germany, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia and Turkey were all affected. The heavy rains caused overflowing of the rivers Oder, Vistula, Elbe and Danube. At least 12 people were killed in the Czech Republic and one in Poland.The floods were the worst natural disaster in the Czech Republic since 2002, when floods killed 17 people and caused billions of dollars of damage in Prague. Those same floodwaters from the Czech Republic also affected Germany, with Dresden being hit by its worst flooding for over a century and three thousand people evacuated from areas where water was said to be waist-deep. Austria also experienced its heaviest rainfalls in half a century.
The 2009 India floods affected various states of India in July 2009, killing at least 36 people in Orissa and 13 in Kerala. The most affected states were Karnataka, Orissa, Kerala, Gujarat and North-East Indian states.Floods triggered by heavy monsoon rains killed at least 36 people in the eastern Indian state of Orissa alone and inundated half a million homes. On 13 July, seven people were killed and many others missing when a bus fell into a rivulet after being swept away by flood waters in Nayagarh district in Orissa. Nayagarh is 87 km from the Orissa state capital, Bhubaneswar. The world famous Sun Temple at Konark is also water-logged, causing hardship for tourists. The most flood affected districts in Orissa are Nayagarh, Cuttack, Ganjam, Keonjhar, Koraput and Kandhamal.Several parts of Kerala were affected with the torrential rains with losses amounting to crores of rupees. At least 13 people in Kerala state are reported dead due to floods in the state. The most affected districts of Kerala are Kannur, Ernakulam, Kozhikode, Kollam Thrissur, Malappuram, Wayanad, Kasaragod and Alappuzha districts. A number of relief camps are opened throughout the state. The Revenue Minister of Kerala state, K. P. Rajendran at Kozhikode has convened a meeting on 20 July 2009 to review the damage caused by rain. District Collectors and officials of the various departments of Kasaragod, Kannur, Wayanad, Kozhikode, Malappuram and Palakkad districts are likely attend the meeting.Over three lakh people have been hit after incessant rains in Assam and other north eastern states of India.At least 10 people, including four children and two women, were killed and nine others injured on 27 July 2009 when a wall collapsed due to heavy rains in the satellite township Noida of the national capital of Delhi.
The 2009 Saudi Arabian floods affected Jeddah, on the Red Sea (western) coast of Saudi Arabia, and other areas of Makkah Province. They have been described by civil defence officials as the worst in 27 years. As of 3 January 2010, some 122 people are reported to have been killed, and more than 350 were missing. Some roads were under a metre (three feet) of water on 26 November, and many of the victims were believed to have drowned in their cars. At least 3,000 vehicles were swept away or damaged. The death toll was expected to rise as flood waters receded, allowing rescuers to reach stranded vehicles.More than 90 millimetres (3½ inches) of rain fell in Jeddah in just four hours on Wednesday 25 November. This is nearly twice the average for an entire year and the heaviest rainfall in Saudi Arabia in a decade. The flooding came just two days before the expected date of the Eid al-Adha festival and during the annual Hajj pilgrimage to nearby Mecca. Business losses were estimated at a billion riyals (US$270 million). The poorer neighbourhoods in the south of Jeddah were particularly hard hit, as was the area around King Abdulaziz University. The university was closed for vacation at the time of the floods, preventing even higher casualties.
The 2009 Karachi floods (Urdu: سيلاب کراچی ‎) in Pakistan's financial centre, Karachi, have killed at least 26 people. The death toll is expected to rise, and more than 150 people have been injured in a series of related incidents. The floods are the result of the heaviest rains in the region in thirty years.Hundreds of homes were also damaged. Those killed either drowned, were electrocuted or died under collapsing roofs. A bit of a building's sixth floor collapsed in Ramswami—debris dropping onto a nearby house, killing four members of a family and injuring 10. Several others were injured as a result of a roof collapse in the Orangi area and two people died in a similar incident. Eleven people were injured after a house wall fell through in Manghopir. Seven people were electrocuted in separate sections of Karachi. One resident reported the death of his neighbor's son to Reuters, saying he drowned in a drain and his body was pulled out. Knee-deep water stranded several thousand people in their homes for several hours. Commercial markets were waterlogged and several hundred vehicles were trapped on the city's roads.Most of Karachi had no electricity on the night of 18 July 2009. Relief efforts are ongoing as water is removed from residential areas.According to Qamar-uz-Zaman Chaudhry, the country's chief meteorologist, Pakistan's commercial hub received 14.7 cm (6 in) of rain between the evening of 17 July and the morning of 19 July. However, the rains began around two weeks later than usual and thus are expected to lead to a 30% reduction in rainfall for the 2009 season.But then another monsoon system was expected to lash the city which was to generate very heavy rains and the citizens were still recovering from the last monsoon rains which broke the record of 1977 rain in Karachi, which was of 207 millimetres (8.1 in). However it only dumped 18 millimetres (0.71 in) rain and the system dissipated quickly on 26 July. Then on August 30 and 31 sudden heavy rains started to lash the city which dumped 147.7 millimetres (5.81 in) rain, Thus again Karachiites were forced to spend the night sleepless due to power breakdown and thousands were forced to end their fasting in traffic jams, as it was the holy month of Ramadan.
The 2009 Luoding flood (Chinese: 罗定船步水灾) was a major flood that occurred in Luoding, Guangdong in the People's Republic of China on the week of September 17, 2009. The water level increased due to rain from Typhoon Koppu. The storm slammed into South China causing torrential rain, mudslides and an oil spill.
The 2009 Messina floods and mudslides occurred in Sicily on the night of 1–2 October, mainly along the Ionian coast in the Province of Messina. They also affected other parts of northeastern Sicily and killed a total of at least 31 people, some of whom were swept out to sea. More than 400 people were left homeless, as many houses collapsed.The places which suffered the most damage were Giampilieri Superiore, a small frazione 10 kilometres south of the city of Messina, which was buried in mud and no longer exists; the comune of Scaletta Zanclea; and the frazione of Briga Superiore.To avoid casualties, when the Messina region received heavy rains in February 2010, the government evacuated one-third of the population most at risk. A mudslide caused property damage, but no casualties.
The US State of North Dakota experienced significant flooding in its major river basins in 2009, following abnormally heavy winter snows atop saturated and frozen ground.
The 2009 Great Britain and Ireland floods were a weather event that affected parts of Great Britain and Ireland throughout November and into December 2009. November was the wettest month across the United Kingdom since records began in 1914 and had well above average temperatures. The worst affected area in Great Britain was the English county of Cumbria. The Irish counties of Clare, Cork, Galway and Westmeath were among the worst affected areas of Ireland.European windstorms bringing heavy rain and gale force winds caused damage and flooding to the south of Great Britain on 13–14 November. Unsettled weather continued across the south and later to the north. On 19–20 November, many towns and villages in Cumbria and Dumfries and Galloway were affected. A number of bridges collapsed, one of which led to the death of a police officer, who was standing on the bridge when it collapsed. Another death occurred on 21 November as a canoeist was trapped against a tree near Poundsgate, on Dartmoor in Devon. In Powys, there were two deaths, at Newtown and Talybont-on-Usk.Among the many places severely flooded was the Republic of Ireland's second largest city, Cork. For more than ten days, 40 per cent of its population were without running water after a treatment plant was affected by several metres of flood water. University College Cork was damaged and at least a week of lectures was cancelled. Courts were also disrupted, with some eventually being moved to a hotel. At the time, Taoiseach Brian Cowen described the situation in Ireland as an "ongoing emergency" that was going to get worse.
The 2009 Red River flood along the Red River of the North in North Dakota and Minnesota in the United States and Manitoba in Canada brought record flood levels to the Fargo-Moorhead area. The flood was a result of saturated and frozen ground, Spring snowmelt exacerbated by additional rain and snow storms, and virtually flat terrain. Communities along the Red River prepared for more than a week as the U.S. National Weather Service continuously updated the predictions for the city of Fargo, North Dakota with an increasingly higher projected river crest. Originally predicted to reach a level of near 43 feet (13 m) at Fargo by March 29, the river in fact crested at 40.84 feet (12.45 m) at 12:15 a.m. March 28, and started a slow decline. The river continued to rise to the north as the crest moved downstream.
The 2009 El Salvador floods and mudslides occurred on November 9 affecting areas including San Salvador, La Paz, Cuscatlan, Usulatan and San Vicente. The disaster was triggered by a low-pressure system from the Pacific, and flooding from heavy rains caused mud and rock slides that killed approximately 130 people and left 60 missing.
Situ Gintung (Sundanese, Lake Gintung) was an artificial lake near to the town of Cirendeu (pronounced [tʃirəndɤ]) in Tangerang District, Indonesia. It was formed by a dam up to 16 metres (52 ft) high which was built by Dutch colonial authorities in 1933. The dam failed on 27 March 2009, draining the lake, with resulting floods killing at least 100 people.
The 2009 Southeastern United States floods were a group of floods that affected several counties throughout northern Georgia, Tennessee, Alabama, Mississippi and Arkansas. The worst flooding occurred across the Atlanta metropolitan area. Continuous rain, spawned by moisture pulled from the Gulf of Mexico, fell faster than the local watersheds could drain the runoff.Initial damages from around the state were estimated at $250 million. On September 26, Georgia Insurance Commissioner John Oxendine raised the estimated cost to $500 million with the potential for it to rise. Some 20,000 homes, businesses and other buildings received major damage and 17 Georgia counties received Federal Disaster Declarations. The flood is blamed for at least ten deaths. The floods were historic, breaking records that went back more than a century in some locations. The Chattahoochee River, the largest river in the region, measured water levels at a 500-year flood level.
The 2009 Turkish flash floods were a series of flash floods that occurred on 9 September 2009 in and around Istanbul, Tekirdağ, and the rest of the Marmara Region of Turkey. The floods led to the death of at least 31 people and the cost of damage has been estimated as being in excess of $70 million.
The 2009 West Africa floods are a natural disaster that began in June 2009 as a consequence of exceptionally heavy seasonal rainfall in large areas of West Africa.  Several rivers, including the Pendjari, Niger, Volta and Senegal rivers, broke their banks, causing destruction of houses, bridges, roads and crops. The floods are reported to have affected 940,000 people across 12 countries, including Burkina Faso, Benin, Ghana, Niger, Senegal, Guinea, and caused the deaths of at least 193 people. In Burkina Faso, one of the most affected countries, 150,000 people fled their homes, mostly in the capital Ouagadougou where rainfall in one day was equal to 25% of normal annual rainfall for the whole country.
Widespread flooding occurred in the eastern part of the Philippines since late December 2010. The Visayas and the Bicol and Caraga regions have been particularly affected by abnormally heavy rains. The floods have displaced 452,999 persons in 19 provinces, and has caused the deaths of 25 people. By 12 January, the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council (NDRRMC) pegged those affected at 235,867 families or 1,230,022 people in 1,267 villages in 137 towns and 10 cities in 23 provinces.
The 2010–2011 Southern Africa floods are an ongoing series of floods across three countries in Southern Africa. Linked to a La Niña event, above-average rains starting in December have led to widespread flooding. Thousands of people were displaced and evacuations of more continue. As of 24 January 2011, at least 141 people are known to have been killed, including 88 in KwaZulu Natal. The South African government declared 33 disaster zones.
The 2010 Albania Floods refer to several periods of major flooding in the northern regions of Albania around Shkodra, Lezhë and Durrës between December 2009 and January 2010.
The June 2010 Arkansas floods were flash floods that killed at least 20 people near Langley, Arkansas, United States, in the early morning of June 11, 2010. Heavy, localized rainfall from six to eight inches (150–200 mm) flooded the Little Missouri and Caddo rivers, sweeping through campsites in the Ouachita National Forest.
The 2010 northeastern Brazil rains caused widespread flooding in the second half of June 2010. The flooding has mainly hit Alagoas and Pernambuco, where entire villages were carried away, killing dozens and causing hundreds to disappear.The rain is expected to continue. President of Brazil Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva convened an emergency session to arrange for the distribution of aid. The distribution of aid is complex, because the affected cities are isolated rural areas with few intact roads (in Pernambuco 79 bridges in critical areas were destroyed by the flood). Lula also cancelled a trip to Canada for a meeting of the G20 major economies.
The 2010 Central European floods were a devastating series of weather events which occurred across several Central European countries during May and June 2010. Poland was the worst affected. Austria, Czech Republic, Germany, Hungary, Slovakia, Serbia and Ukraine were also affected.At least thirty-seven people died in the floods and approximately 23,000 people were evacuated. The city of Kraków declared a state of emergency.The floods forced the closure and relocation of items from the Auschwitz concentration camp museum. On 20 May, aid began arriving to Poland from several European Union countries.
The 2010 China floods began in early May 2010. 392 people had died, and a further 232 people had been reported missing as of June 30, 2010, including 57 people in a landslide in Guizhou. 53 of the deaths occurred from the flooding and landslides between May 31 and June 3, and 266 deaths occurred between June 13 and June 29. 424 people were killed by the end of June, including 42 from the Guizhou landslide; 277 more were killed and 147 left missing in the first two weeks of July, bringing the death toll as of August 5 to 1,072. A landslide in early August in Gansu killed at least 1,471 people and left 294 missing. In total, the flooding and landslides killed at least 3,185 people in China by August 31. More than 230 million people in 28 provinces, municipalities and regions, especially the southern and central provinces and regions of Zhejiang, Fujian, Jiangxi, Hubei, Hunan, Guangdong, Guangxi, Chongqing Municipality, Gansu, Sichuan and Guizhou, and the northeastern province of Jilin have been affected, while at least 4.66 million people have been evacuated because of the risk of flooding and landslides in the latter half of June. By early August, over 12 million people had been evacuated, and that number rose to 15.2 million by August 31.Millions lack drinking water. A total of 1.36 million houses have been destroyed and more than 97,200 square kilometres (37,500 sq mi) of crops had been inundated, while 8,000 km2 (3,100 sq mi) of farmland had been completely destroyed by the end of June. Dozens of rivers remain in flood, including the Pearl River in Guangdong province, which was impacted by severe drought during the spring as its outflow was severely reduced. The total damages from the floods were roughly 83.8 billion yuan as of June 27, 2010, and over 275 billion yuan (41 billion USD) by August 8. By late August, 16.5 million hectares of farmland have been affected by the flooding, while 2.09 million hectares have been completely destroyed.In late May 2010, heavy rainfall caused a train derailment in Jiangxi, killing at least 19 people, and the closure of the Shanghai-Kunming railway line for 24 hours due to a landslide.Many major rivers in China, including the Yangtze, Yellow and Songhua Rivers have been flooded to danger levels. The Chinese Government has allocated over 2.1 billion yuan for rescue and relief work. The Jialing River, Han River and Huai River have also surged higher than warning levels.
The 2010 Colombian rainy season was an unusually heavy wet season that affected Colombia during the second semester of 2010. The continuous rainfalls in combination with unstable grounds and dwellings located in high risk zones contributed to the widespread damages.The flooding and associated landslides killed 174 persons, left 225 wounded and 19 others missing. 1.5 million were left homeless.
The 2010 Colombo floods were an isolated incident that took place during the evening of 10 November to approximately noon on 11 November, in Colombo. As a low-pressure area developed over the city, up to 490 mm (19.3 in) of rain fell during the short period of 15 hours overnight, causing widespread damage and flooding in the area; the highest amount of rainfall in 18 years. A joint Government-UN assessment was launched on the 13th to understand the level of damage in the affected areas.
The 2010 Var floods were the result of heavy rainfall in southern France that caused severe floods in the department of the Var in the evening of 15 June 2010. As well as generalized flooding, there were also flash floods. Meteorologists say the floods are the worst in the region since 1827, with more than 400 mm (16 in) of rain falling in less than 24 hours. At least 25 people have been killed, and 14 people are still missing. The worst hit municipalities were Les Arcs, Figanières, Roquebrune-sur-Argens, Trans-en-Provence, and the subprefecture of Draguignan.
The 2010 Gascoyne River flood was regarded as the most severe flood to take place along the Gascoyne River in Western Australia on record. Triggered by record-breaking rainfall, amounting to over 6,000 percent of the monthly mean, 313.6 mm (12.35 in) and 5 mm (0.20 in) respectively, in just four days, the floods caused widespread damage in the region. By 17 December, the river began to rise in response to the heavy rains, eventually exceeding its banks within two days. Water levels reached record values at three stations along the river, cresting at 15.53 m (51.0 ft) near Fishy Pool. Evacuation orders were issued for several towns affected by rising waters. The most substantial impact was felt in Carnarvon where entire homes were washed away. Following the disaster, emergency supplies and funds were distributed to affected residents to aid them in restoring their livelihoods. Though no people died in the event, an estimated two thousand head of cattle perished and damage was estimated at A$100 million.
The January 2010 Rio de Janeiro floods and mudslides was an extreme weather event that affected the State of Rio de Janeiro in Brazil in the first days of January 2010. At least 85 people died, with at least 29 people in the Hotel Sankey after it was destroyed by landslides, and many more have been injured. More than 4,000 people were forced to evacuate their homes.The worst affected municipality was Angra dos Reis, about 150 kilometres (93 mi) southwest of the city of Rio de Janeiro. At least 35 people were killed at a resort on Ilha Grande: about forty people were staying in the hotel which was buried under a mudslide, and the death toll is expected to rise further. Brazil's only functioning nuclear power plant, Central Nuclear Almirante Álvaro Alberto, is also located within the municipality: plans were made for a temporary shutdown, as blocked roads would make any evacuation difficult or impossible in the event of an incident at the plant.In Rio Grande do Sul, at least seven people died and 20 went missing after a bridge collapsed due to heavy rains.Around 60 tons of dead fish washed up in a lagoon in Rio de Janeiro beginning in January, possibly as a result of local ocean anoxia caused by algal blooms triggered by increased eutrophication from the excess run-off produced by the flooding.
The 2010 Ladakh floods occurred on 6 August 2010 across a large part of Ladakh, a region in the northernmost Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir. 71 towns and villages were damaged, including the main town in the area, Leh. At least 255 people are reported to have died, six of whom were foreign tourists, after a cloudburst and heavy overnight rains triggered flash floods, mudflows, and debris flows. 200 people were reported missing in the initial aftermath of the storm, and thousands more were rendered homeless after the flooding caused extensive damage to property and infrastructure. Overall, 9000 people were directly affected by the event.
The Luotuoshan coal mine flood was an incident that began on Monday, March 1, 2010, when a large amount of water flooded the Luotuoshan coal mine near the city of Wuhai in the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region of the People's Republic of China. A total of 77 workers were underground when they broke into a large pool of Ordovician limestone water early in the morning. By Monday evening, 45 were rescued and one was confirmed dead. All rescue operations were stopped after 14 days, when medical teams believed that the 31 trapped coal miners had no chance of survival.The rescue work was the largest coal mine mobilization in China's history with 40 professional rescue teams involved, comprising 20,384 people. Infrared surveillance cameras and echo megaphones were used to try to detect life underground, but this did not reveal any signs of life.Workers continued pumping water out of the mine and attempting to stop the flooding after the rescue efforts were called off. 3,850 cubic meters of water were being pumped out every hour since the rescue efforts began, with around 100,000 cubic meters of water remaining in the mine on March 24. Yi Lan, a spokesperson for the rescue headquarters, said that workers were hoping to seal the mine pit with 50 million cubic meters of cement, rubble and water glass by April 4.The construction of the mine, which was still under construction at the time of the incident, began in 2006 with the goal of producing 1.5 million tons of coal per year. The mine is owned by Wuhai Energy Co. Ltd., a subsidiary of China's largest coal producer Shenhua Group Corp. Ltd.
The 2010 Madeira floods and mudslides were the result of an extreme weather event that affected Madeira Island in Portugal's autonomous Madeira archipelago on 20 February 2010. At least 42 people died and at least 100 were injured. However, with at least eight people still missing, the final death toll is still uncertain.
There were two episodes of flash flooding in the Milwaukee, Wisconsin, area in a one-week period in July 2010.The first incident occurred in the night on July 15 to July 16. This incident caused basement flooding and some street flooding.Seven days later on July 22 up to 7.5 inches (190 mm) of rain fell in two hours. This unusually heavy rainfall turned streets and freeways into rivers and impassable ponds. Because of the massive amount of rain in such a short amount of time, it caused sewer backups in many areas of the county. The hardest hit were the Northshore areas of Shorewood, Whitefish Bay, Glendale, and North-eastern Milwaukee with water reaching five feet in some areas. The areas had just recovered from the earlier flood and were beginning to resume normalcy. The phrase 'insult to injury' was echoed among many of the TV stations for their plight. Other severe floods, causing ditches to flow over and much basement damage, was located in Fox Point.Media coverage was hampered as the heavy rains caused flooding and damage to equipment at several television stations. The rain caused a sewer to back up inside the facility for television stations WVTV-TV and WCGV-TV, damaging equipment and causing the station to go off-air until the next afternoon, and local operations did not resume until later in the weekend. Flooding of a creek next to the transmission facility for WDJT-TV, WMLW-TV, WBME-TV and WYTU-LP also caused all four stations to go dark, and news operations on WDJT were affected as the station's microwave relay for ENG vehicles was not operational. For much of the weekend, rival station WTMJ-TV simulcast WDJT on a digital subchannel, repaying an arrangement made to simulcast WTMJ on a WDJT subchannel earlier in the year after WTMJ's tower was struck by lightning. During the intense rain several stations experienced Rain fade on satellite reception so severe that network programming had to be temporarily suspended, either by use of a technical difficulties message or, in the case of WDJT, airing impromptu news and weather coverage.A Cadillac Escalade SUV was swallowed in large sinkhole many times its size at the intersection of Oakland and North Avenues on Milwaukee's East Side.The severe weather closed Mitchell International Airport, causing a so-called rain-in. The runways were flooded with high water grounding local flights, and causing incoming flights to be diverted.The flooding also caused one confirmed death, as 19-year-old Kyle Prelesnik's body was recovered from Lincoln Creek about eight blocks away from his car which he had been driving in the storm. The cause of the car going into the creek is pending.It is estimated that the latter storm caused flooding damage of about $37 million. Governor Jim Doyle declared a State of Emergency for Milwaukee County on July 23 as more than ten inches of rain had fallen between the two storms.In the aftermath of the flooding, the state of Wisconsin requested emergency assistance from the Federal Emergency Management Agency, but the initial request was rejected because there was not enough damage reported to qualify for assistance. In August, after Governor Doyle appealed the rejection and submitted additional information on damages, the state received a "Public Assistance" declaration that authorized federal aid in connection with flooding and storm damage to public facilities in Milwaukee County and Grant County, Wisconsin, during the period July 20–24. Calumet County was later added to the declaration. In September, President Barack Obama issued an "Individual Assistance declaration" that authorized federal aid for damaged homes and businesses.Damage from flood waters and backed-up sewage led to a decision in November 2010 to demolish the former St. Michael Hospital, a seven-story 800,000-square-foot (74,000 m2) building that had been largely vacant since the hospital closed in 2006.
The floods in Pakistan began in late July 2010, resulting from heavy monsoon rains in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Sindh, Punjab and, Balochistan regions of Pakistan, which affected the Indus River basin. Approximately one-fifth of Pakistan's total land area was affected by floods. According to Pakistani government data, the floods directly affected about 20 million people, mostly by destruction of property, livelihood and infrastructure, with a death toll of close to 2,000.UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon had initially asked for US$460 million (€420 million) for emergency relief, noting that the flood was the worst disaster he had ever seen. Only 20% of the relief funds requested had been received on 15 August 2010. The U.N. had been concerned that aid was not arriving fast enough, and the World Health Organization reported that ten million people were forced to drink unsafe water. The Pakistani economy was harmed by extensive damage to infrastructure and crops. Damage to structures was estimated to exceed US$4 billion (€2.5 billion), and wheat crop damages were estimated to be over US$500 million (€425 million). Total economic impact may have been as much as US$43 billion (€35 billion).
A series of floods hit Queensland, Australia, beginning in December 2010. The floods forced the evacuation of thousands of people from towns and cities. At least 90 towns and over 200,000 people were affected. Damage initially was estimated at around A$1 billion before it was raised to $2.38 billion. The estimated reduction in Australia's GDP is about A$40 billion.Three-quarters of the council areas within the state of Queensland were declared disaster zones. Communities along the Fitzroy and Burnett Rivers were particularly hard hit, while the Condamine, Ballone and Mary Rivers recorded substantial flooding. An unexpected flash flood caused by a thunderstorm raced through Toowoomba's central business district. Water from the same storm devastated communities in the Lockyer Valley. A few days later thousands of houses in Ipswich and Brisbane were inundated as the Brisbane River rose and Wivenhoe Dam used a considerable proportion of its flood mitigation capacity. Volunteers were quick to offer assistance and sympathy was expressed from afar. A large mobilisation of the Australian Defence Force was activated and a relief fund created. The head of the recovery taskforce was Major General Michael Slater. The Queensland Reconstruction Authority was formed to co-ordinate the rebuilding program beyond the initial taskforce and a Commission of Inquiry established to investigate all matters related to the floods.The 2010–11 floods killed 38 people in Queensland. As of 26 January, an additional nine people were missing. The state's coal industry was particularly hard hit. The Queensland floods were followed by the 2011 Victorian floods which saw more than fifty communities in western and central Victoria also grapple with significant flooding.
Heavy rain in March 2010 saw much of south western and central Queensland undergo major flooding. The floods saw inundation of the towns of Charleville, Roma, St George and Theodore among others. Major rivers affected include the Balonne River, Bulloo River, Paroo River and the Dawson River.
The April 2010 Rio de Janeiro floods and mudslides was an extreme weather event that affected the State of Rio de Janeiro in Brazil in the first days of April 2010. At least 212 people died, 161 people have been injured (including several rescuers), while at least 15,000 people have been made homeless. A further 10,000 homes are thought to be at risk from mudslides, most of them in the favelas, the shanty towns built on the hillsides above downtowns. Damage from the flooding has been estimated at 23.76 billion reais (US$13.3bn, €9.9bn), about 8% of the gross domestic product (GDP) of Rio de Janeiro State.The flooding particularly affected the city of Rio de Janeiro, where at least 60 people died, and its surrounding area. Deaths were also been reported in the cities of Niterói (132), São Gonçalo (16), Paracambi (1), Engenheiro Paulo de Frontin (1), Magé (1), Nilópolis (1) and Petrópolis (1). Several municipalities, including Niterói and municipalities to the east such as Maricá and Araruama, have declared states of emergency or of public calamity. The Governor of Rio de Janeiro State, Sérgio Cabral, declared three days of official mourning for the dead.Heavy rain started at around 5 p.m. local time (2000 UTC) on Monday 5 April in Rio de Janeiro city, and continued for 24 hours, with a total of 28.8 cm (11½ in.) of rain falling, more than was predicted for the whole of April and the heaviest rainfall for thirty years. The Brazilian TV station Globo said the rainfall was equivalent to 300,000 Olympic swimming pools of water. There were drivers who were forced to sleep in their cars. There were also firemen who used rubber dinghies to rescue passengers from stranded buses, and shopkeepers who worked very quickly to prevent the rainfall from destroying their businesses.Rio de Janeiro mayor Eduardo Paes admitted that the city's preparedness for heavy rainfall had been "less than zero," but added "there isn’t a city that wouldn’t have had problems with this level of rainfall."A further landslide hit a slum in Niterói late on 7 April. It is thought to have killed at least 150. Around 200 people were missing in the town as of 13 April.After nearly 300 landslides hit the area, the statue of Christ the Redeemer was cut off from traffic for the first time in history.More than 300 homes were bulldozed after the landslides, and it is estimated that close to 12,000 families will need to be relocated by 2012 due to the damage from the floods.
The 2010 Romanian floods (Romanian: Inundațiile din iunie 2010 din România) were the result of an extreme weather event that struck Romania in late June 2010. Currently, at least 21 people died. The north-east of the country, especially Suceava County was most affected. Also affected was the Chernivtsi Oblast in neighbouring Ukraine.
September 2010 flash flooding in Minnesota and Wisconsin put towns underwater and forced evacuations in southern Minnesota and central Wisconsin. A strong system caused the heavy rain and flash flooding in the Upper Midwest.
The 2010–2013 Singapore floods refers to the series of flash floods that hit various parts of the city state Singapore since 2010. The floods came about due to the higher-than-average rainfall that aggregated over a short period of time.To date, the death toll stands at four. One victim died when a tree fell on a public bus, while another two were injured. Another suffered an instant death when a tree descended on his car. An Indonesian boy was the latest casualty in the June 2011 floods – he fell into an uncovered drain along Whampoa and drowned after being pulled under by strong currents.
The 2010 Slovenia floods, on the weekend of 17–19 September 2010, were caused by heavy rains in Slovenia, resulting in one of the worst floods in the country's history. Among the regions affected were the capital Ljubljana, the Central Sava Valley, Laško, the Slovene Littoral and Lower Carniola. Initial damage was estimated to reach €15 million. Three people died.In Ljubljana, the river Gradaščica – together with the Mali Graben stream – flooded several parts of the Vič District, and record water levels were reached. Several transformers were shut down to prevent accidents, leaving some 3,000 people without electricity.In Zagorje ob Savi, a great part of the town was flooded by the Sava river and several landslides were reported.The town of Laško was flooded by the Savinja river and road connections were cut by the flood waters.In the Littoral region, the Rižana and Dragonja rivers flooded several roads, closing all three border crossings with Croatia in the region. Parts of Portorož Airport and the Sečovlje salt fields were flooded as well. The Vipava River was flooding in the northern Littoral.The Sava, Krka and Kolpa rivers flooded in the Lower Carniola. The towns of Krško, Brežice and Otočec were partially flooded.In Upper Carniola, the town of Žiri was affected by the Poljane Sora. In Železniki, a town that was most affected in the floods exactly three years before, no bigger problems were reported.Some parts of Croatia along the Sava river were also flooded, around 20 people were evacuated around Zagreb.By Monday, 20 September, the water levels began to decrease, although landslides in some regions remained a threat. Four days after the flooding, the area of the Municipality of Dobrepolje was still 6 meters above the usual water-level.
The May 2010 Tennessee floods were 1000-year floods in Middle Tennessee, West Tennessee, south-central and western Kentucky and northern Mississippi areas of the United States of America as the result of torrential rains on May 1 and 2, 2010. Floods from these rains affected the area for several days afterwards, resulting in a number of deaths and widespread property damage.Two-day rain totals in some areas were greater than 19 inches (480 mm). The Cumberland River crested at 51.86 feet (15.81 m) in Nashville, a level not seen since 1937, which was before the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers flood control measures were in place. All-time record crests were observed on the Cumberland River at Clarksville, the Duck River at Centerville and Hurricane Mills, the Buffalo River at Lobelville, the Harpeth River at Kingston Springs and Bellevue, and the Red River at Port Royal.
A series of flash floods hit different areas of Thailand and Malaysia in 2010. Separate but related floods began in the Northeast and Central Thailand (per the six-region definition) in early October due to abnormally late monsoon moisture over the Bay of Bengal, overflowed the Chao Phraya where the rivers meet, and affected Bangkok, and in the South were triggered by a tropical depression about 2 weeks later, and was later aggravated by related La Niña monsoon rains. Floods subsequently occurred in the Malaysian states of Kedah and Perlis in November 2010.Although flooding is a common and annual occurrence in this part of the world, a combination of inadequate drainage and higher than average rainfall in the month of October and November 2010 which caught the nation off guard and led to disaster. The death toll in Thailand stands at 232 people. According to the Thai government data the floods affected nearly 7 million people in more than 25,000 villages, mostly by destruction of property, livelihood and infrastructure. The government announced that 38 provinces have been hit by floods from 1 October until 13 November and waters have receded in 8 provinces leaving 30 provinces still affected including 12 in the southern region of the country.
The 2010 Ugandan landslide occurred in the district of Bududa in eastern Uganda on 1 March 2010. The landslide was triggered by heavy rain between 12 pm and 7 pm that day. At least 100 people were believed to have been killed.
The 2010 Victorian floods were a widespread series of flood events across the state of Victoria, Australia. The floods, which followed heavy rain across southeastern Australia in early September 2010, caused the inundation of about 250 homes, hundreds of evacuations and millions of dollars of damage. Weather warnings were initially issued for Victoria on Thursday 2 September and rain began to fall on the Friday, continuing through the weekend to Tuesday. Heavy rain fell in most regions of the state, particularly at higher altitudes in the state's west and northeast, flooding the upper reaches of many of Victoria's major rivers. A state of emergency was declared with State Emergency Service crews arriving from Queensland, South Australia and Tasmania. The floods proceeded an extensive drought period that had effected the entirety of Australia.While the flooding was widespread, swelling many major rivers, little flash flooding occurred in urban areas. Melbourne remained relatively unaffected, though several large regional towns, such as Ballarat, Benalla and others, experienced urban flooding.The heavy rainfall and flooding was accompanied by wind gusts of up to 110 km/h (68 mph) in the state's southeast and Melbourne's eastern suburbs. The highest rainfall was recorded at Mount Buffalo, with 180 mm (7.08 in) recorded between Saturday and Sunday (4 and 5 September). Authorities expected floodwaters to move downstream, affecting further towns and regions over the following days. Residents in affected areas were advised to boil their water and avoid driving or travelling through floodwaters.
The 2010 Victorian storms were a series of storms that passed through much of the Australian state of Victoria on 6 March and 7 March 2010. One of the most severe storms passed directly over Greater Melbourne, bringing lightning, flash flooding, very large hail and strong winds to the state's capital. It was described as a "mini-cyclone".The larger of the storms brought heavy rain and large hail, which led to flash flooding, disrupting transport in central Melbourne and central Victoria throughout the weekend. Many residential buildings were damaged, most due to hail and heavy rain. Some major buildings were evacuated including Flinders Street and Southern Cross Stations, several major shopping centres, civic buildings and Docklands Stadium. The storms occurred during the Victorian Labour Day long weekend and affected a number of sporting events and festivals, many of which were postponed or cancelled. On average, hail was between 2 centimetres (0.79 in) and 5 centimetres (2.0 in), while at Ferntree Gully in Melbourne's east, hail of up to 10 centimetres (3.9 in) was reported.During the weekend of 6 and 7 March, Melbourne experienced 61 millimetres (2.4 in) of rainfall, more than the entire March average of 50 millimetres (2.0 in). Twenty people were treated by paramedics for hail-related injuries at the Moomba Festival, and many more people suffered minor hail-induced injuries of cuts and bruises. At least 50 families, likely many more, were relocated to temporary accommodation. Extensive storms and flash flooding also affected Melbourne only weeks beforehand on 11 February 2010 and on 31 December 2009, while fellow capital city Perth suffered a similar fate on 22 March 2010. As soon as the city recovered, another flash flood affected the Melbourne metropolitan area three weeks later on the morning of 29 March.
The Wangjialing coal mine flood was an incident that began on Sunday, March 28, 2010, when underground water flooded parts of the Wangjialing coal mine in the Shanxi province of People's Republic of China. A total of 261 people were in the mine when workers first broke through an abandoned shaft that was filled with water. Over 100 managed to escape, but 153 workers were trapped in nine different platforms of the mine.Television reports spoke of the survivors attaching themselves by belts to the wall of the mine as waters rushed in. They hung there for three days until a mine cart drifted by and they got in. Most workers are safe with a few dozen still trapped as of 5 April, if the official numbers are correct; families claim the actual number is higher.The mine belongs to state-owned Huajin Coking Coal Co. Ltd. At the time, workers were building the mine's infrastructure to allow it to produce 6 million tons of coal per year at full production.
The 2010 Nigerien floods were floods across Niger which left over 111,000 people homeless. Niger was already suffering acute food shortages following prolonged drought in the Sahel region. As of 24 August 2010, at least 6 to 8 people had died. The Niger river was pushed to its highest levels in 80 years. The floods subsequently spread along the River Niger into Nigeria, Ghana, Burkina Faso, Togo and Benin over the next few months. Later storms also brewed up in the CAR, Morocco and northern Algeria.
The 2010 West Papua floods occurred on 6 October 2010 in the eastern Indonesian province of West Papua. The floods, which have centered on the town of Wasior in West Papua, resulted from heavy rains resulted in a river overflowing its banks, causing landslides.At least 145 people have reported to have been killed in the floods, as of October 12, 2010.Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono visited the area on October 12, 2010. Many survivors have been evaucated to the city of Manokwari. Large amounts of aid had been mistakenly sent to the town of Wasior in the aftermath of the flooding, despite the mass relocation of the relocation of its residents to Manokwari. Officials and NGOs blamed miscommunications for the mistake.As of December 2010, there were plans to relocate 5,100, or around 7,900 people, to temporary settlements as part of a relocation program for people affected by the floows.The government of Indonesia has blamed heavy rains for the severe flooding, rather than illegal logging and deforestation by locals.
The 2011 Balochistan floods started from the last week of February and continued till the first week of March. Balochistan province was already badly affected from last year's devastating floods as UNHCR claims that 166,000 flood victims are still homeless in the province with 240 people still living in camps.
The 2011 China floods are a series of floods from June to September 2011 that occurred in central and southern parts of the People's Republic of China. They were caused by heavy rain that inundated portions of 12 provinces, leaving other provinces still suffering a prolonged drought, a total of over 36 million people have been affected, killing at least 355 and with direct economic losses of nearly US$6.5 billion.
The 2011 Kohistan floods are a series of flash floods that took place throughout the month of August in the Kohistan District of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa in northwest Pakistan. The floods, caused by overnight heavy rains, have left at least 63 people dead and washed away dozens of houses, settlements, livestock and vegetation. There are relief and security operations currently underway to provide aid and treatment to those affected by the natural disaster. The floods are the most destructive since the deadly 2010 Pakistan floods which rampaged the whole country.
The 2011 Lake Champlain and Richelieu River floods was a series of water level increases that began during the end of April 2011 and caused a subsequent overflow of the Richelieu River in Canada and Lake Champlain in the United States. The floods affected about 3,000 homes in Montérégie and have caused an estimated six million U.S. dollars of damage in seven counties in the northern area of Vermont. Similar damage has been reported in New York State.In Quebec, the major cities affected by the flooding were Venise-en-Quebec, Noyan, Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu, Henryville, Saint-Paul-de-l'Île-aux-Noix and Sainte-Anne-de-Sabrevois. On May 5, the Canadian Forces were requested to help evacuate residents and build dikes to try to protect areas at risk.
The 2011 Missouri River floods was a flooding event on the Missouri River in the United States. The flooding was triggered by record snowfall in the Rocky Mountains of Montana and Wyoming along with near-record spring rainfall in central and eastern Montana. All six major dams along the Missouri River released record amounts of water to prevent overflow which led to flooding threatening several towns and cities along the river from Montana to Missouri; in particular Bismarck, North Dakota; Pierre, South Dakota; Dakota Dunes, South Dakota; South Sioux City, Nebraska, Sioux City, Iowa; Omaha, Nebraska; Kansas City, Missouri; Jefferson City, Missouri, as well as putting many smaller towns at risk. According to the National Weather Service, in the second half of the month of May 2011, almost a year's worth of rain fell over the upper Missouri River basin. Extremely heavy rainfall in conjunction with an estimated 212 percent of normal snowpack in the Rocky Mountains contributed to this flooding event.
The 2011 flooding on the Musselshell River in Montana began about May 21, affecting large parts of central Montana. At Mosby, Montana, the river crested at 16 feet (4.9 m) on Monday, May 23. The flood level at Mosby is 8 feet (2.4 m) and the record crest at that point along the Musselshell is 17.7 feet (5.4 m), set in 1993. The flooding was caused by up to 8 inches (200 mm) of rain combined with snowmelt.On May 24 at Shawmut, near Harlowton, a record pace was set, with a flow rate of 3,670 cubic feet per second (104 m3/s). The average flow is 183 cu ft/s (5.2 m3/s) at that spot for May 24. The prior record at Shawmut was set in 2005 with a rate of 802 cu ft/s (22.7 m3/s). Several roads in the Musselshell watershed were already closed by this date.The town of Roundup suffered the most damage of any community along the Musselshell. Potable water, food, and medicine were major concerns. Flood waters along the Musselshell near Roundup were as much as 6 feet (1.8 m) deep, cresting over the weekend. Flooding near Roundup was at least 2 feet (0.61 m) above record flood level and forced the evacuation of dozens of homes. On Thursday, May 26 the flooding inundated portions of Roundup, At Highway 87 the floodwaters were flowing at over 3,670 cu ft/s (104 m3/s), more than 10 times the normal rate. On May 26 the Musselshell crested near Roundup at 14.16 feet (4.32 m). Its flood stage there is 10 feet (3.0 m). The previous record for that location was set in 1975 at 12.89 feet (3.93 m). In Petroleum County alone damage costs were estimated at US$1.5 million.By June 23, the Musselshell had receded back below its banks, FEMA had assessed damage to public lands and was back in Roundup to assess damage to private lands and properties.Flooding on the unconnected Yellowstone River to the south prompted the closing of a 20 miles (32 km)portion of Interstate 90 from Livingston to Springdale. Floodwaters from the tributary Pryor creek led to closing of Pompeys Pillar National Monument. The Little Bighorn River and related tributaries flooded the area around Crow Agency and shut down Interstate 90 from Hardin to the Wyoming line for several days. Montana counties that were affected by the state-wide flooding in Spring 2011 include: Big Horn, Carbon, Garfield, Granite, Jefferson, Judith Basin, Missoula, Musselshell, Petroleum, Sanders, Wheatland, and Yellowstone. A state of emergency was declared in 51 Montana counties, cities, and Indian reservations. Flood waters from the Musselshell, Yellowstone, and several other Montana rivers flow into the Missouri River and Mississippi River, exacerbating the 2011 flooding in states such as North Dakota and South Dakota.
The 2011 Souris River flood was greater than the hundred-year flooding event for the Souris. The US Army Corps of Engineers estimated the flood to have a recurrence interval between 200 and 500-years. The Souris River is a tributary of the Assiniboine River, which it meets near Treesbank, Manitoba. The Assiniboine meets the Red River of the North in Winnipeg, Manitoba. The flooding has affected Saskatchewan and North Dakota, and overtopped levees in Minot, North Dakota causing the evacuation of about 11,000 residents. The flooding in Minot was worse than the 1969 flood and 1881 flood. Many other towns along the river were affected and many acres of farmland were inundated.
The 2011 monsoon season saw one record flood event in Indochina across several countries and a few separate limited flood events parts of the same nations: Thailand, Cambodia and Myanmar and heavy flooding in Vietnam. Meanwhile, Laos also sustained flood damage. By late October 2011, 2.3 million people have been hit by flooding in Thailand, while the flooding in Cambodia has affected close to 1.2 million people, according to estimates by the United Nations. Unrelated to the northern floods, Southern Thailand near Malaysia has been lashed with flooding in early November and again in December also affecting as far north as Chumporn. In the November event, Southern Thailand near Hat Yai was hit, North-central Vietnam had their own event in October. Myanmar had reported a series of limited but still deadly and destructive events from June to October.The 2011 typhoon season in Philippines overlapped the monsoon season in Indochina, and the country was hit by a series of storms over the course of 4 months: Typhoon Nesat in September, which was followed shortly after by Typhoon Nalgae, and then in December by Tropical Storm Washi, which hit on an unusual track, timing and location.All told, well over 2,828 have lost their lives to a series of flooding events of varying origins in Southeast Asia since August 2011 in the above-mentioned nations, world-wide supply-chain disruptions occurred in technology sector, and billion-dollar losses and severe parts shortages rippled to corporations of developed nations, and the assumption of safety from flood waters was put into question in many nations thought or assumed to be prepared.
The 2011 Thai floods occurred at the end of March 2011, normally the latter part of the dry season (Thai: ฤดูแล้ง reutdu lang or หน้าแล้ง nah lang) in tropical Thailand. Heavy rain fell in the southern region, with over 120 centimetres (47 in) of rain falling in certain areas.
Severe flooding occurred during the 2011 monsoon season in Thailand. The flooding began at the end of July triggered by the landfall of Tropical Storm Nock-ten. These floods soon spread through the provinces of northern, northeastern, and central Thailand along the Mekong and Chao Phraya river basins. In October floodwaters reached the mouth of the Chao Phraya and inundated parts of the capital city of Bangkok. Flooding persisted in some areas until mid-January 2012, and resulted in a total of 815 deaths (with 3 missing) and 13.6 million people affected. Sixty-five of Thailand's 77 provinces were declared flood disaster zones, and over 20,000 square kilometres (7,700 sq mi) of farmland was damaged. The disaster has been described as "the worst flooding yet in terms of the amount of water and people affected."The World Bank has estimated 1,425 billion baht (US$45.7 billion) in economic damages and losses due to flooding, as of 1 December 2011. Most of this was due to the manufacturing industry, as seven major industrial estates were inundated in water as much 3 meters (10 feet) deep during the floods. Disruptions to manufacturing supply chains affected regional automobile production and caused a global shortage of hard disk drives which lasted throughout 2012.The World Bank's estimate for this disaster means it ranks as the world's fourth costliest disaster as of 2011 surpassed only by the 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan, 1995 Kobe earthquake, and Hurricane Katrina in 2005. A 2015 study suggests increasing odds for potential flooding similar to the 2011 flood intensity to occur in the future.Thailand's southern provinces also saw seasonal flash-flooding towards the end of the year, although these were not as destructive as the floods in the more northerly provinces.
The January 31 – February 2, 2011 North American winter storm, also called the 2011 Groundhog Day Blizzard, was a powerful and historic winter storm, situated around the United States and Canada on Groundhog Day. During the initial stages of the storm, some meteorologists predicted that the system would affect over 100 million people in the United States. The storm brought cold air, heavy snowfall, blowing snow, and mixed precipitation on a path from New Mexico and northern Texas to New England and Eastern Canada. The Chicago area saw between 1 and 2 feet of snow and blizzard conditions, with winds of over 60 mph. With such continuous winds, the Blizzard continued to the north and affected Eastern and Atlantic Canada. The most notable area affected in Canada was Toronto and the Greater Toronto Area. Blizzard conditions affected many other large cities along the storm's path, including Tulsa, Oklahoma City, Kansas City, St. Louis, Springfield, El Paso, Las Cruces, Des Moines, Milwaukee, Detroit, Indianapolis, Dayton, Cleveland, New York City, New York's Capital District, and Boston. Many other areas not normally used to extreme winter conditions, including Albuquerque, Dallas and Houston, experienced significant snowfall or ice accumulation. The central Illinois National Weather Service in Lincoln, Illinois issued only their fourth blizzard warning in the forecast office's 16-year history. Snowfall amounts of 20 to 28 inches were forecast for much of Northern and Western Illinois.An ice storm ahead of the winter storm's warm front also brought hazardous conditions to much of the American Midwest and New England, and many areas saw well over 1 in (2.5 cm) of ice accumulation. Numerous power outages, flight cancellations, airport closures, road closures, roof collapses, rail and bus cancellations, mail stoppages, and school, government, and business closures took place ahead of and after the storm; many of these disruptions lasted several days. Several tornado touchdowns were reported in Texas and a tornado watch was issued for parts of Alabama, ahead of the cold front in the warm sector of the storm. In addition, thundersnow was recorded at some locations, including downtown Chicago. At least 24 deaths were reported to be related to the storm, many of them in shoveling or auto-related incidents. The total damages from the ice storm alone may exceed $1 billion USD.
The 2011 Assiniboine River flood was caused by above average precipitation in Western Manitoba and Saskatchewan. This was a 1 in 300 year flood that affected much of Western Manitoba. The flooding in Manitoba was expected to mostly involve the 2011 Red River Flood but instead the more severe flooding was found on the Assiniboine in the west.
An ongoing series of floods in Colombia began in late April 2011, coinciding with the country's rainy season. Torrential rains triggered extensive flooding and landslides that have killed at least 111 people and left more than 69,000 homeless. Initial estimates have placed damage at US$5 billion. Since September, a further wave of flooding and landslides (coinciding with the year's second rainy season) has killed another 81 people, wounded 65 more and affected approximately 289,000 (including 61,000 families).
The 2011 floods in Europe, caused by low-pressure area Meeno, occurred in late October–early November in France, Italy and Ireland. In Italy the river Po rose 4 m (13 feet) in Turin and a number of people (including two children) died in Genoa. A state of emergency in the Italian regions of Liguria and Tuscany was declared after floods killed 10 people on 27 October, causing mudslides. In Ireland, a state of emergency was declared in Dublin three days before.The same low-pressure area also induced heavy rain and flooding in parts of North Africa.
A series of floods and mudslides took place in January 2011 in several towns of the Mountainous Region (Região Serrana), in the Brazilian state of Rio de Janeiro. Casualties occurred in the cities of Nova Friburgo, Teresópolis, Petrópolis, Bom Jardim, Sumidouro and São José do Vale do Rio Preto. The floods caused at least 903 deaths, including 424 in Nova Friburgo and 378 in Teresópolis. While local media claims that the combination of floods, mudslides and landslides in Rio de Janeiro became the worst weather-related natural disaster in Brazilian history, some contend that a similar weather-related tragedy that took place in the same state in 1967 was much deadlier, and that an estimated 1,700 people lost their lives on that occasion.The cities that reported human casualties are located in a mountainous area, in the neighborhood of the Serra dos Órgãos national park. The area is a tourist hotspot due to its geographic features, historical landmarks and mild temperatures. Many buildings, however, are directly exposed to landslide hazards because of the steep terrain.
The Mississippi River floods in April and May 2011 were among the largest and most damaging recorded along the U.S. waterway in the past century, comparable in extent to the major floods of 1927 and 1993. In April 2011, two major storm systems deposited record levels of rainfall on the Mississippi River watershed. When that additional water combined with the springtime snowmelt, the river and many of its tributaries began to swell to record levels by the beginning of May. Areas along the Mississippi itself experiencing flooding included Illinois, Missouri, Kentucky, Tennessee, Arkansas, Mississippi, and Louisiana. U.S. President Barack Obama declared the western counties of Kentucky, Tennessee, and Mississippi federal disaster areas. For the first time in 37 years, the Morganza Spillway was opened on May 14, deliberately flooding 4,600 square miles (12,000 km2) of rural Louisiana to save most of Baton Rouge and New Orleans.Fourteen people were killed in Arkansas, with 392 killed across seven states in the preceding storms. Thousands of homes were ordered evacuated, including over 1,300 in Memphis, Tennessee, and more than 24,500 in Louisiana and Mississippi, though some people disregarded mandatory evacuation orders. As of May 2011, up to 13% of U.S. petroleum refinery output was expected to be disrupted by flood levels exceeding historical records in several locations, and gasoline prices were expected to rise. The flood crested in Memphis on May 10 and artificially crested in southern Louisiana on May 15, a week earlier than it would have if spillways had not been opened. The United States Army Corps of Engineers stated that an area in Louisiana between Simmesport and Baton Rouge was expected to be inundated with 20–30 feet (6.1–9.1 m) of water. Baton Rouge, New Orleans, and many other river towns were threatened, but officials stressed that they should be able to avoid catastrophic flooding.From April 14–16, the storm system responsible for one of the largest tornado outbreaks in U.S. history also produced large amounts of rainfall across the southern and midwestern United States. Two more storm systems, each with heavy rain and tornadoes, hit in the third week of April. In the fourth week of April, from April 25–28, another, even more extensive and deadly storm system passed through the Mississippi Valley dumping more rainfall resulting in deadly flash floods. The unprecedented extensive rainfall from these four storms, combined with springtime snow melt from the Upper Midwest, created the perfect situation for a 500-year flood along the Mississippi.
The 2011 Red River flood took place along the Red River of the North in Manitoba in Canada and North Dakota and Minnesota in the United States beginning in April 2011. The flood was, in part, due to high moisture levels in the soil from the previous year which meant that further accumulation would threaten the flood prone region. Flood predictors were worried of a dual crest of both the Assiniboine River and the Red striking Winnipeg at the same time. Beginning around April 8, 50 homes were evacuated and two more were flooded after an ice jam in St. Andrews pushed the river to burst its banks. Three fatalities were blamed on the flood by 8 April all in the US. One was a man who died while sandbagging in Fargo-Moorhead, while the other two were men who drowned in the Maple River when their boat capsized while hunting beavers. A fourth man died in Niverville, Manitoba on 9 April when his vehicle skidded off a flooded road and submerged. The Red River through most of Southern Manitoba was below major floods of the past including 1979 and 1950, but when the river crested at the James Avenue pumping station north of the confluence of the Red River and the Assiniboine River, the measured open water crest was 19.59 above datum, which if the flood controls put in place along the Red and Assiniboine Rivers were not present would have amounted to the sixth highest water levels ever recorded in Winnipeg only lower than 1861, 2009, 1997, 1852, and 1826. The increased crest at the James Avenue pumping station was largely due to the flooding Assiniboine River.
The 2011 Seoul floods were a series of floods in late July 2011 caused by heavy rainfall around Seoul, South Korea. The intense rain triggered a series of flash floods and landslides that killed at least 49 people by July 27, leaving a total of more than 77 dead or missing. On July 27, the number of killed rose further to 69. The floods occurred primarily around the national capital Seoul and nearby Siheung regions. At least 86 power outages followed the landslides, affecting 125,000 people by July 27. Over 11,000 South Koreans were forced to evacuate.
The flood was originated mostly because of rainfall and observed the highest ever recorded monsoon rain in Sindh started from Aug 11, 2011 to Sept 14, 2011. So the inundated area increased respectively with rainfall and ceased on Sept 15, 2011 effectively with the stop of rainfall. After Sept 15, 2011 the inundated area was reduced with the rate of 167 km2/day. The floods caused considerable damage; an estimated 434 civilians were killed, with 5.3 million people and 1,524,773 homes affected. Sindh is a fertile region and often called the "breadbasket" of the country; the damage and toll of the floods on the local agrarian economy was extensive. At least 1.7 million acres of arable land was inundated as a result of the flooding. The flooding followed the previous year's historic 2010 Pakistan floods, which devastated the entire country. Unprecedented torrential monsoon rains caused severe flooding in 16 districts of Sindh province.
High intensity rainfall between 12–14 January 2011 caused major flooding across much of the western and central parts of the Australian state of Victoria. Several follow-up heavy rainfall events including Tropical Low Yasi caused repeated flash flooding in affected areas in early February in many of the communities affected by January's floods.Many of the towns were previously affected by floods in September 2010, however the 2011 event was more severe, affecting at least four times as many properties with thousands of evacuations being called for by the State Emergency Service. As of 18 January, more than 51 communities had been affected by the floods. A total of over 1,730 properties had been flooded. Over 17,000 homes lost their electricity supply. The floods forced VicRoads to close hundreds of roads; and train services were also disrupted. The floods devastated farms with 51,700 hectares of pasture and 41,200 hectares of field crops flooded and 6,106 sheep killed. The Victorian Employers Chamber of Commerce and Victorian Farmers Union initially estimated that damages would amount to hundreds of millions of dollars, but the Department of Primary Industries later calculated a damage bill of up to A$ 2 billion.Kevin Parkyn, a senior forecaster with the Bureau of Meteorology said, "Victoria is experiencing one of its worst flood events in its history" after "a week in which rainfall totals have been smashed in parts of Victoria." Bureau of Meteorology senior forecaster Terry Ryan said, "It's the worst flood in western Victoria in their history as far as our records go in terms of the depth of water and the number of places affected." The Premier of Victoria, Ted Ballieu, has described it as "one of the biggest floods in the state's history."
The 2011 Wollongong floods, beginning in March 2011, were a series of floods occurring throughout Wollongong, New South Wales in Australia and nearby regions. The floods were the result of a storm cell covering most of Southern New South Wales and torrential rain along coastal (suburban Sydney) and regional cities.Sixteen pre-school children and their carers were rescued at Jamberoo by the State Emergency Service. Albion Park received 63mm of rain in the hour leading up to 1 pm on 21 March 2011. A man, presumed to be in his forties, was found dead 150 km east from a stormwater bridge as torrential rain continued fall across the Illawarra region of NSW on 21 March, dozens of people were rescued as highways were shut and trains suspended until the waters subsided.The Bureau of Meteorology issued flash flood warnings for the South Coast, Riverina, Illawarra, South West Slopes, Snowy Mountains and Southern Tablelands, with heavy rain expected to continue. In the first 48 hours of the flood (20–21 March) 160 millimetres of rain has fallen in Wollongong. Robertson in the Southern Highlands recorded the state's highest rainfall on 21 March with 83 mm equalling the March record for 2003.The Princes Highway was closed around Station Street, Albion Park and at Kiama after a tree fell and blocked the road. The Southern Freeway was closed at Berkeley and the Illawarra Highway was also closed.
The 2012 Brahmaputra floods were an unprecedented flood event along the Brahmaputra River and its tributaries due to significant monsoon rains in India, Bangladesh and Myanmar. 124 people were killed by the flooding and landslides, and about six million people were displaced. The worst hit area was the state of Assam in India. Flooding significantly affected Kaziranga National Park, where 540 animals died including 13 rhinos.In September 2011, the Brahmaputra River flowed through braided channels, but a year later, the channels could not be detected in the swollen river. During the monsoon season (June–October), floods are a common occurrence in India. Occasionally, massive flooding causes huge losses to crops, life and property. Deforestation in the Brahmaputra watershed has resulted in increased siltation levels, flash floods, and soil erosion in critical downstream habitat, such as the Kaziranga National Park in middle Assam.Helicopters were deployed to drop food supplies to nearly 10,000 people in six villages where highway access was cut off by the flooding, about 550km west of Gauhati, the capital of Assam.
2012 Himalayan flash floods are the floods that occurred on the midnight of August 3, 2012 in the Himalayan region of Northern Indian states. Many were dead and missing.Many places were affected. Landslides and flash floods were triggered by a sudden cloudburst which left 31 people dead while 40 are reported to be missing.
The 2012 Loreto floods is an orange-alert weather event that affected Loreto Region, Peru that took place in the first months of 2012. February and March were the wettest months along the Peruvian Amazon. The area most affected in Loreto are villages, towns and coasts of the provincial capital, Iquitos. It is the first and strongest historical flood series in the history of Loreto, preceding the floods in 1986.Wet weather in Loreto brought downpours and lots of drizzle, causing damage and flooding to the Loreto Region since November 2011. The rainy weather continued into early 2012, and the water level rose in the Amazon —extensive stream that feeds most of the Loreto tributaries— to 117 m. From February and March, several towns are affected (19,209-18,400 affected families), 26 000 hectares of farmland are flooded and water level reached the coastal streets of Iquitos. Other sites concerned, is the Ucayali Region.It is anticipated that after the floods, in the dry season, would increase the risk of dengue and malaria due to the proliferation of mosquitoes.
Fiji was hit by serious flooding during January 2012.
The 2012 Great Britain and Ireland floods are a series of weather events that affected parts of Great Britain and Ireland periodically during the course of 2012 and on through the winter into 2013. The beginning of 2012 saw much of the United Kingdom experiencing droughts and a heat wave in March. A series of low pressure systems steered by the jet stream brought the wettest April in 100 years, and flooding across Britain and Ireland. Continuing through May and leading to the wettest beginning to June in 150 years, with flooding and extreme events occurring periodically throughout Britain and parts of Atlantic Europe.On 27 and 28 June and again on 7 July heavy rain events occurred from powerful thunderstorms that gathered strength as they travelled across mainland Britain. Severe weather warnings and a number of flood alerts were issued by the UK's Environment Agency, and many areas were hit by flash floods that overwhelmed properties and caused power cuts. A motorist was killed after his vehicle was caught by floodwater and landslides halted rail services between England and Scotland. The thunderstorms were the product of two fronts that collided over the British Isles – warm air travelling from the Azores and cold water-ladened air from the west. The second batch of flooding struck the South-West of England during the afternoon of 7 July, forcing the Met Office to issue its highest alert, Red (Take Action), due to the significant amounts of rainfall caused by a system travelling from Southern Europe, along with the warm, humid air the United Kingdom had seen in the run-up to the floods, which, like the June floods, caused thunderstorms.During the Autumn the most intense September low since 1981 brought widespread flooding and wind damage to the UK. Widespread flooding occurred again in November, December and January 2013, as more heavy rains overwhelmed the saturated ground.
Typhoon Haikui was the third tropical cyclone in the span of a week to impact Mainland China during late July and early August 2012. The name Haikui, which replaces Longwang, means sea anemone in Chinese.
In a twenty-hour period on July 21, 2012, a flash flood hit the city of Beijing in the People's Republic of China. Within a day of the flooding, 56,933 people had been evacuated, while the floodwaters killed 79 people, causing at least 10 billion Yuan (US $1.6 billion) in damages and destroying at least 8,200 homes. In the city, more than 1.6 million people were affected by the flood overall.Fangshan District was the most heavily affected area of Beijing, located in the southwest, which received a record-setting 460 mm (18 in) of rain, while on average the city received 170 mm (6.7 in) during the same period, the highest recorded since 1951. The Juma River flooded its banks and reached a flow rate of 2,500 m3 (88,000 cu ft) per second. A woman in Fangshan reported the river rose 1.3 metres on her home in approximately ten minutes.At Beijing Capital International Airport, the floods resulted in the cancellation of over 500 flights, stranding 80,000 travellers.The flash flood was part of a series of flooding events across China that began in late spring of 2012 and continued during the summer. In July, the areas of southwestern China, including Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, and northeastern China including Beijing, Hubei and Liaoning were worst-affected.In 2011, a thunderstorm flooded Beijing and inundated Tiananmen Square. In 2007, a similar July thunderstorm claimed the lives of 22 people. The 2012 flash floods reached levels not seen in previous years.
Nepal was hit by serious flooding during May 2012.The floods are thought to have been caused by waters of the Seti building near its source, high above the snowline, during days of rain and then suddenly bursting free. The flooding was worst in the western part of the country. Two villages were especially badly hit when water surged down the Seti river because of a landslide. Officials say that rocks, earth and other debris blocked the river and caused flash flooding.
The 2012 Nigeria floods began in early July 2012, and killed 363 people and displaced over 2.1 million people as of 5 November 2012. According to the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), 30 of Nigeria's 36 states were affected by the floods. The floods were termed as the worst in 40 years, and affected an estimated total of seven million people. The estimated damages and losses caused by the floods were worth N2.6 trillion.
The 2012 North Korean floods began in mid-July 2012 when Tropical Storm Khanun affected parts of the country, killing at least 88 people and leaving more than 62,000 people homeless. Torrential rains on 29 and 30 July 2012 worsened the situation, causing additional damage and casualties and forcing the government to request international assistance. Severe rainfall also affected the southern region of North Korea in August, killing at least six.
The 2012 Pakistan floods began in early September 2012, resulting from heavy monsoon rains in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Upper Sindh, Southern Punjab and Balochistan regions of Pakistan.
The 2012 Metro Manila Flooding (informally known in Tagalog as Hagupít ng Habagat, "wrath of the monsoon" and Bagsík ng Habagat, "fierceness of the monsoon", from habagat, the Filipino term for the southwest monsoon), was an eight-day period of torrential rain and thunderstorms in the Philippines from August 1 to August 8, 2012. Its effects centered on Metro Manila, the surrounding provinces of the CALABARZON Region (Quezon, Cavite, Laguna and Rizal) and the provinces of Region 3 (Bulacan, Pampanga and Bataan). Not a typhoon in its own right, the storm was a strong movement of the southwest monsoon (Tagalog: Habagat) caused by the pull of Typhoon Saola (Gener) from August 1–3, strengthened by Typhoon Haikui. It caused typhoon-like damage: the most damage caused by rain since September 2009, when Typhoon Ketsana (Ondoy) struck Metro Manila. The heavy rain caused the Marikina River to overflow, destroying areas also affected by Ketsana, triggering a landslide in the Commonwealth area and collapsing the northbound Marcos Highway.Its damage was nearly as severe as Ketsana's, although the storm did not reach typhoon intensity when the rain reached its peak on August 7. The floods and rain left 95 people dead, 8,428 homes destroyed and 6,706 damaged. Nationwide losses totaled at least ₱604.63 million (US$14.31 million).
The 2012 Romanian floods were the result of an extreme weather event that struck Romania in late May 2012. Authorities reported four deaths throughout Romania. The south-east of the country, especially Vrancea County was most affected. Also affected were the provinces of Kyustendil, Blagoevgrad and Sofia in neighbouring Bulgaria.Seven houses were flooded in Lacu Roșu neighborhood (Brăila). According to data given by Brăila County Department of Agriculture, between May 20 to 29, due to torrential rainfall were affected cultures of sunflower, corn, wheat, barley, soy and vegetables on an area of about 817.8 ha. Likewise, several households were flooded in the commune of Mircea Vodă. Throughout the town of Ianca, consumers remained without electricity for two hours.In Caraș-Severin County, 250 households were flooded. According to the authorities, 80 households in Șușca, 80 in Radimna, 89 in Prilipeț and one in Lăpușnicu Mare were affected by floods formed on slopes because of heavy rainfall. The water destroyed an electric pillar, for which Șușca inhabitants were left without electricity for three hours. The operative intervention of military firefighters of 'Semenic' Inspectorate for Emergency Situations had saved 20 people, including four children.In Ilfov and Dâmbovița counties, respectively in Bucharest, occurred cloudburst, that caused spontaneous floods. The sewers didn't cope to large quantities of water, thus several streets were flooded. In many areas, hail made havoc. Several households were flooded in the commune of Pantelimon. In Dâmbovița County, more cars were damaged, after board on the roof of a block was torn by the wind. Withal, in the commune of Răzvad (Dâmbovița County), heavy rains transformed ditches and streets in real rivers. Water entered the cellars of houses, household annexes, courtyards and gardens, and locals' cultures were compromised.In Mehedinți County, county road DJ607C and local road DC4 were affected, due to the formation of transversal and longitudinal ravines. Also, national road DN57 was affected, due to slope glide, leading to the collapse of masonry parapet. Over 240 consumers were left without electricity in four localities (Strehaia, Băsești, Budănești and Cracu Lung). The balance sheet of authorities shows that due to Coşuştea River overflow were flooded 100 hectares of tillage, 120 hectares of pastures in village of Corcova and three hectares of agricultural land in village of Broșteni, due to Motru River overflow.In Neamț County, 50 households and 19 household annexes were flooded due to heavy rains in early-June. Also, strong winds, hailstorms and thunderstorms produced significant damage through Neamț County.In Prahova County, several households and institutions were flooded. In town of Băicoi, severe weather left 18 consumers without electricity. Landslides and rockfalls also affected county road 101T and local road DC47. A girl of six years old was taken by stream formed by precipitation fallen in last days.In Vaslui County, 40 localities remained without electricity, 25 households were destroyed by water and river deposits, 15 people were evacuated from their homes. In the commune of Solești, flash floods made damages of over 700,000 RON following the destruction of roads, heavy rains flooded 25 households, and 15 people were evacuated from their homes and sheltered in Solești Cultural House. Heavy rains affected in the gross over 40 villages in Vaslui County, and in two communes, Vutcani and Alexandru Vlahuță, extreme weather left people without electricity. Problems, especially with affected bridges and footbridges, were registered in other communes, such as Vutcani, Bălteni, Lipovăț, Viișoara, Voinești, Laza and Bogdănești.At least 10 households in town of Mărășești and commune of Pufești (Vrancea County) were flooded due to heavy rains in last days. On European route E85, road traffic was hampered in two points, because whirling waters that rushed over road. Over 6,140 villagers in the communes of Nereju and Spulber were isolated when county road DN2M collapsed on a stretch of about 30 m. Authorities said that it has exceeded the rate of flooding on the Zăbala River. In the mountains of Vrancea County were registered record levels of rainfall, of 87.5 l/m².In Bulgaria, more areas of Sofia have been flooded following heavy rains in last days. Torrential rainfall in Sofia blocked traffic in several areas of the city. The southern bypass road of the city was flooded. Besides Sofia, several towns in western Bulgaria suffered from the storm. In town of Kyustendil, storm unprooted eleven trees. The localities of Blagoevgrad, Sandanski, Petrich and Kresna were also affected.
The 2012 Krasnodar Krai floods occurred in southwest Russia in early July, mainly in Krasnodar Krai near the coast of the Black Sea. The equivalent of five months of rain fell overnight in some southern parts of the country according to the Hydrometeorological Centre of Russia. 171 people died during the floods, and Russian police said the floods damaged the homes of nearly 13,000 people. According to the governor of Krasnodar Krai, Alexander Tkachyov, "there was nothing of the kind for the last 70 years". The flood was part of the aftermath of an intense storm that hit Krasnodar, dropping almost half a year’s worth of rainfall on the region over two days. Close to 30,000 people were affected by the floods.Most of the victims lived in the city of Krymsk, 80 km (50 mi) from Krasnodar and 15 km (9 mi) from Novorossiysk, at the foot of a minor mountain range running along the coast of the Black Sea. Eyewitnesses reported that the flood hit the city around 2 a.m. local time on 7 July 2012 when most residents were asleep. The flood wave reached the height of 7 m (23 ft), submerging many houses to the ceiling and drowning those who could not escape in time. There were also deaths on the coast of the Black Sea in Gelendzhik, a resort, and in Novorossiysk, a port.
2013 Assam floods were floods in the Indian state of Assam which were triggered by heavy rainfall at the end of June in neighboring Arunachal Pradesh state through Brahmaputra river and its tributaries. These flood submerged 12 districts out of 27 in the state where more than 100,000 people affected. The flood also affected Kaziranga National Park and Pobitora Wildlife Sanctuary where many animals have moved on to higher ground to save themselves from the flood. The floods also affected some of the northern districts of Bangladesh where 100,000 people are suffering from a scarcity of food and pure drinking water.
The monsoon season in the northern areas of Bihar, continuing rain in Himalayas, and a rise in water levels of the Ganges, Kosi, Gandak, Baghmati, and the Punpun gave rise to anticipated flooding for 2013.
During mid-August 2013 parts of eastern Russia and northeastern China were stricken by heavy flooding. At least 85 people died from the floods and more than 105 others were left missing as of August 19. More than 60,000 homes were destroyed and 840,000 people evacuated from Heilongjiang, Jilin, and Liaoning provinces due to flooding which happened at the same time as flooding in China's southern Guangdong province.
The 2013 Sardinia floods took place in and around the Sardinian town of Olbia between 17 and 19 November 2013. They also affected other parts of northeastern Sardinia and killed at least 18 people. Thousands of people were left homeless. The places which suffered the most damage were Olbia, and in general the whole region of Gallura. The flood caused damages of over 1 billion euro.
The 2013 monsoon season (August 2013 – December 2013) saw large-scale flooding return to Indochina after a calmer 2012 monsoon season. Poverty stricken Cambodia was hardest hit, with some 83 deaths. Countries affected also include Vietnam, Thailand, Laos, and Myanmar. Philippines has seen the annual typhoon related occurrences, which often pummel into Indochina.
In early July 2013, much of southwest China experienced heavy rainfall that led to widespread flooding. Sichuan was the hardest hit. At least 73 people were killed as a result of the flooding, with 180 people missing. An estimated 6 million lives were disrupted by the floods.
In the days leading up to June 19, 2013, Alberta, Canada, experienced heavy rainfall that triggered catastrophic flooding described by the provincial government as the worst in Alberta's history. Areas along the Bow, Elbow, Highwood, Red Deer, Sheep, Little Bow, and South Saskatchewan rivers and their tributaries were particularly affected. A total of 32 states of local emergency were declared and 28 emergency operations centres were activated as water levels rose and numerous communities were placed under evacuation orders.Five people were confirmed dead as a direct result of the flooding and over 100,000 people were displaced throughout the region. Some 2,200 Canadian Forces (CF) troops were deployed to help in flooded areas. Total damage estimates exceeded C$5 billion and in terms of insurable damages, is the costliest disaster in Canadian history at $1.7 billion. Receding waters gave way to a mammoth cleanup of affected areas, aided by a spontaneous volunteer campaign in which many home owners were assisted by complete strangers.
Between 1 and 3 April 2013, the northeastern section of Buenos Aires Province, Argentina, experienced several flash floods that claimed the lives of 101 people. Greater La Plata was hardest hit with 91 reported deaths, and Greater Buenos Aires reported 10 deaths. The flooding was the result of extremely heavy rainfall and is said to be the worst flooding in La Plata's history.Three days of national mourning were declared on 3 April. Two days later, government benefits for flood victims were announced.
Tropical Cyclone Oswald in January 2013 passed over parts of Queensland and New South Wales, Australia over a number of days, causing widespread impact including severe storms, flooding, and water spouts. Coastal regions of Queensland were the most impacted with Mundubbera, Eidsvold, Gayndah and Bundaberg in the Wide Bay–Burnett hit severely. In many places the rainfall total for January set new records. Across the affected region, damage from severe weather and flooding amounted to at least A$2.4 billion (US$2.5 billion).7,500 residents of Bundaberg and patients at the Bundaberg Hospital were evacuated. Houses were completely washed away and parts of Bundaberg's sewage network were destroyed. Cuts to transport links including damage to numerous bridges, communication interruptions, electrical blackouts and water supply problems were experienced across wide areas. Several swiftwater rescues had to be undertaken.
The 2013 Colorado floods was a natural disaster occurring in the U.S. state of Colorado. Starting on September 9, 2013, a slow-moving cold front stalled over Colorado, clashing with warm humid monsoonal air from the south. This resulted in heavy rain and catastrophic flooding along Colorado's Front Range from Colorado Springs north to Fort Collins. The situation intensified on September 11 and 12. Boulder County was worst hit, with 9.08 inches (231 mm) recorded September 12 and up to 17 inches (430 mm) of rain recorded by September 15, which is comparable to Boulder County's average annual precipitation (20.7 inches, 525 mm). This event has also been referred to as the 2013 Colorado Front Range Flood, reflecting a more precise geographic extent in and along the Colorado Front Range mountains.The National Weather Service's Hydrometeorological Design Studies Center stated in a document that the annual exceedance probability (AEP) for the entire rainfall event was as low as 1/1000 (0.1%) in places.The flood waters spread across a range of almost 200 miles (320 km) from north to south, affecting 17 counties. Governor John Hickenlooper declared a disaster emergency on September 12, 2013, in 14 counties: Adams, Arapahoe, Broomfield, Boulder, Denver, El Paso, Fremont, Jefferson, Larimer, Logan, Morgan, Pueblo, Washington and Weld. By September 15, federal emergency declarations covered those 14 counties as well as Clear Creek County.On October 15, 2013, the State of Colorado launched a website to assist flood survivors and victims with resources and information at coloradounited.com.
Extreme flooding in Central Europe began after several days of heavy rain in late May and early June 2013. Flooding and damages primarily affected south and east German states (Thuringia, Saxony, Saxony-Anhalt, Lower Saxony, Bavaria and Baden-Württemberg), western regions of the Czech Republic (Bohemia), and Austria. In addition, Switzerland, Slovakia, Belarus, Poland, Hungary and Serbia (Vojvodina) were affected to a lesser extent. The flood crest progressed down the Elbe and Danube drainage basins and tributaries, leading to high water and flooding along their banks.
The 2013 Grand Rapids flood lasted from April 12 to 25, 2013, affecting multiple areas in the Grand Rapids metropolitan area. Sudden heavy rainfall, saturation of the ground from rainwater and the flow of tributaries caused the Grand River to rise dramatically, with the river cresting at 21.85 feet (6.66 m) in Grand Rapids on April 21, 2013. The flooding caused thousands of residents in the area to evacuate their homes.
In June 2013, a multi-day cloudburst centered on the North Indian state of Uttarakhand caused devastating floods and landslides becoming the country's worst natural disaster since the 2004 tsunami. The reason the floods were on such a larger scale than the regular floods the state usually received was because of the debris of the building of dams upstream. The debris blocked up the rivers, causing major overflow. The main day of the flood is said to be on 16 June 2013. Though some parts of Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh in India experienced the flood, some regions of Western Nepal, and some parts of Western Tibet also experienced heavy rainfall, over 95% of the casualties occurred in Uttarakhand. As of 16 July 2013, according to figures provided by the Uttarakhand government, more than 5,700 people were "presumed dead." This total included 934 local residents.Destruction of bridges and roads left about 100,000 pilgrims and tourists trapped in the valleys leading to three of the four Hindu Chota Char Dham pilgrimage sites. The Indian Air Force, the Indian Army, and paramilitary troops evacuated more than 110,000 people from the flood ravaged area.
Operation Surya Hope is the name that Indian Army’s Central Command gave to its response in Uttarakhand following the June 2013 North India floods. The Uttarakhand flood was caused by record unseasonal monsoon rains, cloud burst, floods, flash floods, and, possibly, climate change induced glacier lake outburst floods (GLOFs). The humanitarian disaster affected millions, stranded over 100,000 pilgrims and tourist in Himalayan religious sites, and killed several thousand people.Operation Surya Hope was conducted by Indian Army's Lucknow based Central Command. Surya or Sun, is the emblem of the Central Command, and features prominently on the Command's formation sign, and flag, which is probably why Central Command chose to name Indian Army's largest ever humanitarian mission as Operation Surya Hope.Operation Surya Hope is a successor to Operation Ganga Prahar. Operation Surya Hope was commanded by Lieutenant General Anil Chait, General Officer Commanding in Chief (GOC in C) Central Command. He was succeeded by Lieutenant General Rajan Bakhshi, on 1 July 2013. Bakhshi soon after assuming command said that the Army will continue with the relief operations and that he would soon visit Uttarakhand. Over 10,000 troops participated in Operation Surya Hope. It was conducted in tandem with the response by Indian Air Force (IAF) (Operation Rahat), the Border Road Organization, National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and other para military forces under the Ministry of Home.The floods and landslides in Uttarakhand, the worst natural disaster in the area in a hundred years, has been called a Himalayan Tsunami by the Government of India. According to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), the total rainfall in Uttarakhand in the period from 1 to 18 June 2013 was 385.1 mm, which was the highest in the last 80 years. The normal rainfall during this period is 71.3 mm, indicating that rainfall was 440% above the normal.
The 2013 Jakarta flood was a flood in Jakarta, the capital of Indonesia, which, in addition to areas in downtown Jakarta, also affected several other areas surrounding the city, such as West Java and Banten.
In August 2013, Pakistan and eastern Afghanistan experienced heavy rain that led to flash flooding. More than 180 died as a result of the floods.
The 2013 Southeastern United States floods were ongoing flooding across the southeastern U.S. Flash floods began on the morning of July 3 and continued through Independence Day and into the next day. The hardest-hit areas as of Friday afternoon are the Florida Panhandle, northwest Alabama and the area around Columbus, Mississippi. A plume of tropical moisture caused heavy rain to train over the same areas, for more than 36 hours in some cases, leading to flash flooding.The system also caused sporadic damaging winds and one tornado in Destin, Florida.
Continuous and heavy rains in much of Sudan, starting in early August 2013, resulted in flood damage in at least 14 of 18 Sudanese states. Over 300,000 people are reported to have been affected, with over 25,000 homes reported destroyed. Government agencies report that nearly 50 people have been killed.
The 2014 Assiniboine River flood was caused by above average precipitation in western Manitoba and Saskatchewan. Unlike most prior floods, this flood was not due to spring runoff, but rather significant rainfall. Flooding and high water involved both the main stem of the Assiniboine River and many of its tributaries including the Qu'Appelle River and the Souris River. The flood came just 3 years after the 2011 Assiniboine River Flood which was considered a 1 in 300 year event. Peak flows along the river for the first crest were generally slightly less than in 2011. However, the second peak on the river has exceeded 2011 levels starting near St. Lazare, Manitoba up to Brandon, Manitoba so far.
On 7 June 2014, a flash flood took place in Baghlan, Afghanistan, killing 73-200 people and leaving 200 missing.
On June 19, 2014, torrential rains caused severe flash flooding across northeastern Bulgaria leaving dozens of villages without electricity and submerging large parts of several cities in the region. At least 16 people were reported killed – 13 (4 of which children) in the Asparuhovo district of Varna, one in Dobrich and two in the village of Tsani Ganchevo in Shumen Province.Abundant rainfall, the result of a Mediterranean cyclone, also caused damage on the Romanian shore of the Black Sea, especially in Constanța County.
The 2014 South Korea floods were a series of floods in late August 2014 caused by heavy rainfall around the Honam and Yeongnam. This flood season killed about 10 people, and caused many accidents during 18 August to 25 August. In some places, The rain fell over 50 mm in an hour.
Between 13 and 18 May 2014 a low-pressure cyclone designated Tamara and Yvette affected a large area of Southeastern and Central Europe, causing floods and landslides. Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina suffered the greatest damage, as the rain was the heaviest in 120 years of recorded weather measurements. By 20 May, at least 62 people had died as a result of the flooding, and hundreds of thousands had been forced from their homes. Towns of Obrenovac in Serbia and Doboj in Bosnia and Herzegovina account for most victims, after being inundated by several meters high waters from nearby rivers.Floodwaters caused over 2,000 landslides across the Balkan region, spreading damage across many towns and villages. The rains activated torrents and mudslides, and subsequently several rivers in watersheds of Sava and Morava rose and flooded surrounding valleys. Official counts indicate that over 1.6 million people were affected in Serbia and Bosnia, after a week of flooding.Assessments of the damage range up to 3.5 billions € for Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina. Damage in Serbia, jointly estimated by EU, World Bank group and UN officials, stands at 1,55 billion euros. Officials in Bosnia stated that the damage could exceed that of the Bosnian War. The events initiated a large international aid campaign, with numerous countries, organizations and individuals donating humanitarian, material and monetary support for the affected areas.
The 2014–15 Malaysia floods affected Malaysia from 15 December 2014 – 3 January 2015. More than 200,000 people were affected while 21 were killed. This flood have been described as the worst floods in decades.
Beginning on 14 December 2014, a series of floods from the northeast monsoon hit Indonesia, West Malaysia, Southern Thailand, and later Sri Lanka in South Asia. More than 100,000 people have been evacuated in Indonesia, 200,000 in Malaysia, and several thousand in Thailand. Floods are also affecting 1,100,000 in Sri Lanka.
High intensity rainfall since 13 January 2014 caused major flooding across the Interior Division of Sabah including some district in other division such as Menggatal, Penampang and Tuaran. Another follow-up heavy rainfall events caused repeated flash flooding in the interior areas in early February.
In September 2014, the Kashmir region suffered disastrous floods across many of its districts caused by torrential rainfall. The Indian administrated Jammu and Kashmir, as well as Pakistan administered Azad Kashmir, Gilgit-Baltistan and Punjab were affected by these floods. By September 24, 2014, nearly 277 people in India and about 280 people in Pakistan had died due to the floods.
Sir Sarthak Pant'' said,"In the wake of heavy monsoon rain and flash floods in Jammu and Kashmir, which have killed over four hundred and rendered hundreds of thousand homeless, the Indian Armed Forces were deployed in increasing numbers starting September 2, 2014 to conduct search, rescue, relief, relocation,humanitarian assistance and rehabilitation missions in Jammu and Kashmir. By September 18, over 200,000 people were rescued from the various parts of Jammu and Kashmir by the Armed forces. The Jammu and Kashmir floods, the worst in a century according to Omar Abdullah, the Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir, paralyzed the state government. Omar Abdullah, responding to public criticism, told the media “I had no government” in the first few days following the floods, as “My secretariat, the police headquarters, the control room, fire services, hospitals, all the infrastructure was underwater.” Adding “I had no cell phone and no connectivity. I am now starting to track down ministers and officers.” The Jammu and Kashmir floods of 2014 have been blamed on heavy rainfall, about 8 inches (200mm) on 4 September alone, on climate change, unplanned and uncontrolled development, encroachment of river banks, lakes, ponds, and massive loss of wet lands, absence of local government flood forecasting system, and poor governance.The Armed Forces humanitarian assistance mission in response to the floods was named Mission Sahayata (assistances). Northern Command's humanitarian assistance to Civil authorities was named 'Operation MEGH RAHAT'. The Indian Army, Air Force, and the Navy, committed large resources to the assistance mission including over 30,000 troops ( 21,000 in Srinagar, and 9000 in Jammu), 15 engineer task forces, 84 Indian Air Force and Army Aviation Corps fixed wing transport aircraft and helicopters, naval commandos and rescue specialists, and Base Hospital, four field hospitals, over 106 medical detachments. "Operation Megh Rahat", ended on 19 September 2014, but "Operation Sadbhavna", the relief and medical assistance support, according to government press release, will continue in "close synergy with the civil administration and the police".
The 2015 Accra floods resulted from heavy continuous rainfall in Accra, the largest city in Ghana. The rain started on 1 June 2015. The floods have resulted in heavy traffic on the roads in the city and also a halt in commercial activities as markets were flooded and workers trapped. Mayor of Accra Metropolitan Assembly, Alfred Oko Vanderpuije described the flooding as critical. At least 25 people have died from the flooding directly, while a petrol station explosion caused by the flooding killed at least 200 more people.
Several locations in the northern Buenos Aires Province suffered flash floods in August 2015, caused by a record rain. The Luján River, the Areco river and the Arrecifes River were the most affected. Three people died, and 11,000 had to evacuate their homes.
2015 Assam floods were floods in the Indian state of Assam which were triggered by heavy rainfall at the end of August in neighbouring Arunachal Pradesh state through Brahmaputra river and its tributaries. The floods are reported to have caused the deaths of 42 people and numerous landslides, road blockages and affected 1.65 million people in 21 districts. Flooding affected 2,100 villages and destroyed standing crops across an area of 180,000 hectares (440,000 acres). In the Dhubri district alone, more than 400 villages are now almost impossible to reach making it difficult to send aid to the suffering civilians.However, this is not the first time the Assam state has experienced destructive flooding; the region is possibly India's most flood-prone state and has experienced at least 12 major floods since 1950. Although always prone to floods, the frequency of disastrous floods was increased in the area after the 1950 Assam-Tibet earthquake, also referred to as the "1950 Great Earthquake".
High intensity rainfall since 17 January 2015 caused major flooding across several parts of Sarawak and Sabah. Around 13,878 people had been evacuated with one teenage girl became the only casualty.
The 2015 Gujarat cyclone, officially Deep Depression ARB 02, brought heavy rains to the Indian state of Gujarat in June 2015. Following heavy rains, Gujarat was affected by floods. The flood is also known as the June 2015 Gujarat flood or 2015 Amreli flood. The floods resulted in at least 80 deaths. The wild life of Gir Forest National Park and the adjoining area was also affected. The monsoon in Gujarat typically starts in mid-June every year.
The 2015 Louisiana flood took place in the United States for several weeks in June 2015. The areas in Louisiana affected by the Red River Flood include Caddo Parish, Bossier Parish, Natchitoches Parish, Rapides Parish, and the cities of Coushatta, Alexandria, and Shreveport. The flood caused numerous road closures throughout Shreveport. Response teams such as the Louisiana National Guard were deployed in order to fill and place sandbags at residences that were under flood warning.The Red River reached its highest level in over 70 years, cresting in most of the affected areas at around 6–9 feet over the flood levels. At 4 PM on June 9, the river reached its maximum height of 37.14 feet.The most recent US Army Corps of Engineers study to characterize the flood patterns of the Red River was released in 1990, when the river last flooded. There are no current plans for another study.Although many advances have been made towards flood protection in Louisiana, flooding is inevitable; the changing course of the river(s) will continue no matter how high the levees are built. The Mississippi River flood history shows that the river has a pattern of major flooding every decade or so.
Severe flooding in Myanmar began in July 2015 and continued into September, affecting 12 of the country's 14 states, resulting in about 103 deaths and affecting up to 1,000,000 people. Most of the casualties were reported from the Irrawaddy Delta. Torrential rains that began on 16 July destroyed farmland, roads, rail tracks, bridges and houses, leading the government to declare a state of emergency on 30 July in the four worst-hit regions in the west—Magway Division, Sagaing Division, Chin State and Rakhine State.Myanmar's Ministry of Agriculture reported that more than 1.29 million acres of farm land have been inundated and 687,200 acres damaged. Moreover, 15,239 houses were destroyed, according to OCHA figures.
The 2015 South Indian floods resulted from heavy rainfall generated by the annual northeast monsoon in November–December 2015. They affected the Coromandel Coast region of the South Indian states of Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh, and the union territory of Puducherry, with Tamil Nadu and the city of Chennai particularly hard-hit. More than 500 people were killed and over 18 lakh (1.8 million) people were displaced. With estimates of damages and losses ranging from nearly ₹200 billion (US$3 billion) to over ₹1 trillion (US$15 billion), the floods were the costliest to have occurred in 2015, and were among the costliest natural disasters of the year. The flooding has been attributed to the 2014-16 El Niño event.
The 2015 Southeast Africa floods, partially related to Cyclone Bansi and Tropical Storm Chedza, killed at least 176 people in Malawi, 86 in Mozambique, and at least 46 in Madagascar over the course of a week while leaving hundreds more missing. Vice President of Malawi Saulos Chilima stated that over 200,000 Malawian people have been displaced by the flood. About 400,000 African people have been displaced in total, and 153 were declared missing.Flooding began on January 14, 2015, subsiding at the end of the month. Due to the flooding, the soil in some areas became over saturated and caused landslides, leading to more deaths. The rainfall of Southeast Africa was recorded as being 150% higher than normal, flooding roughly 63,000 hectares in total. Through years of research, Africa is said to have shown a complex pattern of rainfall, causing droughts and floods in the same season. Much of the damage from the 2014-2015 rain season can be attributed to the effects of El Niño.
The 2015 Tanzania flood occurred on 4 March 2015  in Shinyanga Region, Tanzania. The flood occurred during Tanzania's rainy season the, months of March, April, and May, during which rainfall ranges from about 150mm to 250 mm. Most people were unable to escape the floods. As a result, least 50 people were killed and another 82 were wounded in the flood. After an original tally of 38 casualties, more died receiving medical care in hospitals. The flood further affected some 3,500 people. Many houses were damaged due to hail and strong winds. This blocked roads and made rescue operations difficult. Farmland 1000 km away from the Dar es Salaam, the largest and most commercial city in Tanzania, was also affected, devastating the poor agriculturally-dependent people of the region. Crops such as maize and cotton and livestock were impacted by the flood.
In late December 2015, a major storm complex developed and produced a tornado outbreak, winter storm, blizzard and ice storm in areas ranging from the Southwestern United States to New England. Tornadoes impacted areas around Dallas, Texas. Several states, especially Missouri, were hit with heavy rain and snow causing severe floods. As the system moved through the Great Lakes region, heavy rain, ice pellets and heavy snow fell in the entire region. Wintry mix moved through southern Ontario and Quebec had significant snowfall on December 29. Almost 60 people were killed in the storm system and its aftermath, which made it one of the deadliest of such systems of 2015 in the United States.
The 2015–16 Great Britain and Ireland floods were a series of heavy rainfall events which led to flooding during the winter of late 2015 and early 2016.
Following heavy rain, Gujarat state of India was affected by the flood in July 2015. The flood resulted in at least 72 deaths.
The 2015 Northern Chile floods were a series of mudflows that affected much of northern Chile, product of flash floods from different rivers due to unseasonal heavy rains in the area, causing severe damage in several towns of the Antofagasta, Atacama and Coquimbo regions. Flooding in Chile and Peru resulted from an unusual cold front which moved across the Andes, bringing heavy rainfall to the region.The National Office of Emergency of the Interior Ministry (ONEMI) has reported more than 27,413 people affected, 5,585 people on shelters and more than 300 isolated due to roads destruction. 26 people died during the mudflow and 101 are officially missing, although it is expected that these numbers will increase as contact is reestablished with remote communities. Preliminary figures show that property damage reaches more than 28,000 houses, of those 105 are completely destroyed, and at least 5,900 present severe damages.
The October 2015 North American storm complex was a high precipitation event that caused historic flash flooding across North and South Carolina. The incipient cold front traversed the Eastern United States on September 29–30, producing heavy rain in multiple states. The system subsequently stalled just offshore. Tapping into moisture from the nearby Hurricane Joaquin, a developing surface low brought heavy, continuous rain to southeastern States, with the worst effects concentrated in South Carolina where catastrophic flooding occurred. The event culminated in South Carolina on October 4 when numerous rivers burst their banks, washing away roads, bridges, vehicles, and homes. Hundreds of people required rescue and the state's emergency management department urged everyone in the state to not travel. Some areas of the state have seen rainfall equivalent to a 1-in-1000-year event.At least 25 deaths have been attributed to the weather complex: 19 in South Carolina, 2 in New York, 2 in North Carolina, 1 in Florida, and 1 in New Brunswick. Damage in South Carolina alone is estimated at $12 billion, comparable to Hurricane Hugo in 1989.
Storm Desmond was an extratropical cyclone and fourth named storm of the 2015–16 UK and Ireland windstorm season, notable for directing a plume of moist air, known as an atmospheric river, which brought record amounts of orographic rainfall to upland areas of northern Atlantic Europe and subsequent major floods.In the United Kingdom the worst affected areas were centred on Cumbria, parts of Lancashire and the Scottish Borders. In Ireland the worst affected areas were in the Shannon River Basin in the west and Irish midlands.Severe rain and some flooding was also being reported in Northumberland, north Wales and Yorkshire. Disruption from flooding, high winds, and damage to infrastructure led to the suspension of hundreds of rail services across the country, with the West Coast Main Line closed for several days due to flooding and a landslide. Sports fixtures were also cancelled and more than 43,000 homes across the north of England were left without power, as well as over 2,000 homes in the Republic of Ireland and around 700 in Wales.The expected heavy rainfall was considered to be an extreme weather event by the Norwegian Meteorological Institute, who named it Synne. The Free University of Berlin named the low Ted, as part of its Adopt–a–vortex programme.
Storm Eva was the fifth named storm of the Met Office and Met Éireann's Name our Storms project. Heavy rainfall from Eva occurred around three weeks after Storm Desmond had brought severe flooding to parts of Northern England, exacerbating the ongoing situation. The low pressure was named Chuck by the Free University of Berlin and Staffan by the Swedish Meteorological Institute.
A significant flood occurred in the Vere River valley in Tbilisi, the capital of Georgia, on the night of 13 to 14 June 2015. It resulted in at least 20 human deaths and struck the Tbilisi Zoo, leaving half of its animal inhabitants either dead or on the loose.
Preceded by more than a week of heavy rain, a slow-moving storm system dropped tremendous precipitation across much of Texas and Oklahoma during the nights of May 24–26, 2015, triggering record-breaking floods. Additionally, many areas reported tornado activity and lightning. Particularly hard hit were areas along the Blanco River in Hays County, Texas, where entire blocks of homes were leveled. On the morning of May 26, the National Weather Service issued a flash flood emergency for southwest Harris County (which includes the city of Houston) and northeast Fort Bend County. The system also produced deadly tornadoes in parts of Mexico, Texas, and Oklahoma.
The 2016 Oklahoma floods are a natural disaster in the United States that occurred on May 31, 2016. The inundation set precipitation records in Texas and Oklahoma. Texas Governor Greg Abbott declared a disaster in 31 counties due to several lives being lost in recent days. On June 2, 2016, the rising of the Brazos River required evacuations for portions of Brazoria County.
Deadly floods hit Ethiopia, leaving at least 28 people dead as seasonal rains come early to the country. The majority of these deaths occurred in the city of Jijiga while elsewhere, heavy downpours of rain were reported with more floods expected in the next few days.
In late May and early June 2016 flooding began after several days of heavy rain in Europe, mostly Germany and France, but also Austria, Belgium, Romania, and Moldova. Among others, the German states of Bavaria, Hesse, Rhineland-Palatinate, Baden-Württemberg, and North Rhine-Westphalia were affected. There was also severe flooding in France. Beginning at the river Neckar, also the Danube, Rhine, Seine and their tributaries were affected by high water and flooding along their banks. At least 18 people have died to date.
Heavy rainfall in the early February 2016 has caused major flooding in the state of Sarawak, Johor, Malacca and parts of Negeri Sembilan.
In mid-April 2016, an upper-level low in the United States stalled and produced a major snowstorm in the Rocky Mountains, and record-breaking rain in and around Houston, Texas, resulting in severe flooding. There were more than 17 inches of rain in one day in parts of the city, and up to 4 inches of rain per hour that morning at George Bush Intercontinental Airport. It is described as the wettest April in the city on record.As the most widespread flood event there since Tropical Storm Allison in 2001, it caused a state of emergency to be declared in nine counties.
Following heavy rains and flash floods in Pakistan, at least 71 people were killed and another 34 hospitalized. Beginning the night of Saturday, April 3, rainfall began to spur floods in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa region in the northwest. Heavy rainfall is common in Southern Asia during the pre-monsoon season. Following the floods, the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa government began to administer relief for those affected. Rural areas with poor infrastructure were highly susceptible, and, consequently, some 150 homes were destroyed in the event. The floods also caused deadly landslides that killed another 23 people. However, 5 survived and were rescued. Furthermore, the rain washed away bridges and roads in the area, as well as causing crop loss.
Intense flooding and mudslides struck São Paulo (city) and São Paulo (state), Brazil, following heavy rain and killed at least 21. The rain occurred after months of drought.
Beginning on 14 May 2016, a low pressure area over the Bay of Bengal caused torrential rain to fall across Sri Lanka, causing floods and landslides which affected half a million people. As of 25 May 2016 the death toll was 101 with 100 missing.